"This movie on the Top 250? Doesn't deserve it.  As a gory film, this works, but as a GOOD film? Doesn't break &quot;okay.&quot; And yet, everyone thinks it is a great shark film. (Bruce oughta eat those people.)  I have only seen this once. There's 2 hours and four minutes I'll never have back.  (PS: Why do I say it's okay? I can't figure that out.)"
"This film deals with a single theme: the shark attacks on humans. Directed by Steven Spielberg and written by Peter Benchley and Carl Gottlieb, it has Roy Scheider, Robert Shaw and Richard Dreyfuss in the lead roles.  Regarded by many as Spielberg&#x27;s consecration film (I don&#x27;t quite agree, I think E.T. was most notable at this point), this thriller has become one of the most popular films of the seventies, a real milestone of cinema. Honor is made to it&#x27;s director, who knew how to work the central theme and skilfully use special effects he had at his disposal, even if we think also in the failure he was trying to use that unfortunate mechanical shark. In fact, it was better that way because we have more fear of what we don&#x27;t see. The actors went well with his role, particularly Shaw. The script was innovative for it&#x27;s time, being the first to address shark attacks. The sound effects are excellent and John Williams created one of the most impressive soundtracks of all the history of cinema. It&#x27;s impossible not to feel the heart beating faster when he heard that song that, unsurprisingly, has become a classic. This film won three Oscars (Best Sound, Best Soundtrack and Best Editing) and the Golden Globe for Best Soundtrack.  It&#x27;s not a mere coincidence that Spielberg is one of the few directors who won two Oscars. He is meticulous, inventive, perfectionist and genial. Although this film does not understand why sharks attack people (usually confusing them with seals and other animals in their food chain) and have caused a real stigma against them that still makes them deeply misunderstood, it was able to maintain it&#x27;s popularity and continues today to be the target of admiration of the public."
"If &#x22;Jaws&#x22; succeeds at anything, it&#x27;s in making the viewer really start to question what&#x27;s in the water with them. You&#x27;d be hard-pressed to find anyone that wouldn&#x27;t give this movie some thought before ever heading into the ocean again. This story is essentially a man versus nature tale, and serves as a reminder that although we are the most intelligent species on the planet, there are forces of nature bigger than we are.  &#x22;Jaws&#x22; succeeds in establishing a dynamic group of characters whose interactions with one another are interesting to watch. The war veteran turned fisherman gets his rocks off by teasing the intellectual scientist, the chief just tries to keep peace to save his community...the dynamics of the relationships were interesting enough. Where I feel &#x22;Jaws&#x22; fails is in the story department, because although we have some interesting multi-faceted characters, the plot is still that of a B-movie. The story of a shark terrorizing a coastal community could easily have been a Roger Corman production. Spielberg manages to elevate the material to A-level status with his use of great actors and a script that fleshes the characters out more than any B-movie would attempt, and his direction produces some genuine moments of suspense, but it&#x27;s predictable fare. There are few surprises for the viewer, and anyone that believes the movie will end with the shark still alive hasn&#x27;t seen enough Hollywood films.  I commend Spielberg for making entire generations afraid to go into the water. But nevertheless let&#x27;s not forget this is a popcorn film, elevated slightly by a good set of characters."
"The film has its moments of tension, like when Brody (Roy Scheider) feeds fish into the ocean and, as he is chatting, quite unexpectedly the head of a giant shark pops up out of the water next to him. &#x22;You&#x27;re going to need a bigger boat&#x22;, Brody then ominously warns Quint (Robert Shaw), skipper of the rickety old fishing boat they&#x27;re in. This sequence shows up in the second half, where most of the film&#x27;s tension is. And the cinematography in this second half is quite good.  But overall &#x22;Jaws&#x22; is a silly, made-for-kids adventure that is not remotely plausible. The shark keeps coming back to the crew&#x27;s boat, as if the shark is out for revenge. Referring to the shark, Hooper (Richard Dreyfuss), the third of three crew members, says: &#x22;he&#x27;s chasing us; I don&#x27;t believe it.&#x22; No, I don&#x27;t believe it either. Natural predators are not capable of revenge.  Of course, to advance the plot and keep the audience engaged, the unlikable and stupid three-man crew does all the wrong things. On-board chaos results. But the film&#x27;s shallow (pardon the pun) premise and plot sells the popcorn, no &#x22;deep&#x22; themes needed.  The story setup is way too long. Lots of talky dialogue, crowds of beached whales (or rather sunbathers), a parade, and a greedy mayor who is more of a villain than the shark render a boring first half. Director Spielberg could have used the shark to chop off most of the script&#x27;s first half.  &#x22;Jaws&#x22; is a big budget Hollywood production with some tension out on the open waters. And it has some good underwater footage. But a too simplistic premise, precious little subtext, vapid setup, and unlikable, overwrought characters sink the film into the dregs, the production appeal veering sharply toward viewers pacified by frothy, Disney-ish cheese."
"First, this movie is stupid in so far as it is filled with anti-shark propaganda. You have a much greater chance of being killed by a falling coconut or a dog than a shark. They are not a force of evil created by Satan.  The movie could still have been entertaining however, lots of good movies have idiotic stories. Unfortunately, the characters are dull, the story moves at a snail pace, the serious dialogue laughable, the shark fake looking, and the acting mediocre. Really, the only things worthwhile are the poster and the shark theme.  Tldnr: a boring curio from the 70s that probably helped push the great white further towards extinction."
"For me - The only times that the movie &#x22;Jaws&#x22; ever came to life and became somewhat worthwhile to watch were only during the scenes that showcased the shark&#x27;s attacks.  And since these attacks happened so few and far between, that about rendered the remainder of this ultra-silly monster movie as being nothing more than one big, long yawn, for the most part.  And another thing - Yes. Of course, I do fully realize that &#x22;Jaws&#x22; was &#x22;just-a-movie&#x22; - But, all the same, I&#x27;m hardly convinced that a shark (especially one of this predator&#x27;s apparent cunning) would ever behave as this one inevitably did in its hot pursuit of Quint and his 2-man crew on-board the Orca.  If you ask me - This great white rogue of the ocean was just too obviously dumb for words. Believe me, this blood-thirsty beast was just asking to be killed. (And, yep, in the end, its wish came true)   In conclusion - From where I was sitting - 1975&#x27;s &#x22;Jaws&#x22; was yet another one of those ridiculous, big-budget movies that (now 40 years old) still manages to be grossly over-rated for reasons that I&#x27;d say are, for the most part, quite unfounded."
"I actually saw JAWS on the big screen. I was too young to see it when it was originally released in 1975 so I had to wait 2 years before catching it during a second run in a dingy theater. I was 9 years old and it only cost 50 cents to see it! Those were the days. Anyway, I enjoyed JAWS back then for what it was but nothing more. In fact, even at 9, JAWS didn&#39;t even terrify me. It&#39;s a crowd pleaser for sure but I just don&#39;t see the big hoopla this film generated back then and still today.  The big problem with JAWS is the &quot;terror&quot; aspect of the story: the killer shark can only kill people if they&#39;re in the ocean. So the solution is easy enough: don&#39;t go in the water. That&#39;s it. No more terror. This obvious fact always seems to go over the head of everyone. It&#39;s not like you step out of your house and bam! a shark attacks you out of nowhere. The shark lives in a specific area where no one lives in. People swim in for fun or maybe fish in for work but a body of water like the sea is not terrifying to someone who lives on solid ground (unless they can&#39;t swim...arf). I figured this one out when I was 9 years old. In order to generate a story or terror, the characters in the film put themselves deliberately in harm&#39;s way. Because of this, it&#39;s very difficult for me to empathize with their plight. As opposed to something like HALLOWEEN, THE BIRDS or even in a faraway science-fiction world like ALIEN, were the characters are in constant danger since the killer lurks around every corner of their lives, not just in one specific area that is easy to avoid. I immediately respond to these kind of stories because the threat is more credible to the on-screen characters&#39; lives. Not in JAWS. The threat of a killer shark was an artificial plot-point made only worse by the characters&#39; actions.  In other words, I&#39;ll always be more scared of a psycho with a chainsaw like in the (original) Texas Chainsaw Massacre than a great white shark in JAWS. Because of this obvious weakness in the film&#39;s story-line, and in the light of its ranking among critics and fans alike, JAWS is certainly the most overrated film of all time."
"Until recently, my feelings about this movie were ambivalent. The first time I watched this movie was when I was still a child by that time I really enjoyed it. Although, I never considered it -not even then- as a horror movie but more as an action, thriller/adventure movie. Lately, I saw Jaws rated as one of the top 10 horror movies. I got confused for I didn&#x27;t remember it as that good; thus,I decided to rent it to see if I discovered something new. Quite honestly, I ended up disappointed because this time I watched it from a much more mature, less sensationalistic, and more critical perspective.  The result? I found it utterly boring! There were very few good moments and the actors&#x27; performances were OK, but they were never great. In fact, Jaws was fatalistic, totally unrealistic, and very slow . The first 30 minutes were truly tedious. There was not a story, just a shark moving around, and killing people out of nothing. Oh...! this too! Was the mayor so stupid to believe that hiding the presence of the shark from the press and public would not affect tourism? Honestly? How ridiculously silly is that??? Even the greediest businessman would have actually done the opposite,for ignoring the danger would have meant his ruin and the ruin of the whole town if someone else got killed!!! But of course such idiotic behaviour can be seen only in bad movies, and we should not forget that Jaws was based in that nonsensical plot.  Furthermore, the shark wasn&#x27;t really horrifying or threatening but it looked pretty fake. Don&#x27;t misunderstand me...that wouldn&#x27;t matter much to me if the plot was logical and attractive -but it wasn&#x27;t- or if the characters were interesting and well developed- but that was not the case either. Sadly, I never felt particularly connected to any of those characters...I never cared about their fate, because there was no depth there; they were almost caricatures of real people!.  So, yeah, JAWS is a classic, and perhaps for many, it was a great movie. Personally, I believe its popularity is due to the fact that it was the first big &#x27;horror&#x27; blockbuster; however, there are lots of thrillers/horror movies even older than this one that show much better plots, characters, photography, and are also much more original and interesting than this film (e.g The Birds). Perhaps many of the reasons why people still find it so &#x27;great&#x27; is because of the romanticism associated with the idea of the &#x27;classic movies&#x27;. We tend to idealize them. Jaws is indeed a classic; nevertheless, if you think JAWS is the BEST movie ever, then you need to watch more films or pick better ones!..and if you think real sharks behave like the one in JAWS, come to Australia and talk to us, see them yourself and talk to those who know (i.e Marine biologists). Sharks are certainly dangerous, but they are not JAWS! Overall, Jaws, is mere fantasy...and if the movie was meant to be just that, then it wouldn&#x27;t be as bad, but it was meant to be a thriller (or horror!)and that is precisely why it is so disappointing and so poor! Jaws...an entertaining film? Perhaps... Good? NEVER!...  Would I watch it again? No, I will not."
"A group of Jerks in Stupidtown, U.S.A. can&#x27;t figure out what to do when a shark the size of the space shuttle starts feeding on the local dumbbells.  Finally, the Chief of the Idiot Police, a salty (read: sleazy) fisherman, and a little college dweeb pile onto a smelly boat and search for the gigantic fish so they can take pot shots at it with an old rifle, heave poison darts, and throw beer cans at its head, all in the hope of killing it -- or at least scaring it away.  Meanwhile, the audience falls asleep and dreams of the days when movies were good because they were made by the Italians, the French, the Germans, the British, and the Irish, instead of the matza balls who made this piece of tripe."
"This decidedly heavy-handed, $8 million monster movie (which earned back 25x its production costs within its first year of release) actually had me yawning uncontrollably within its first half-hour.  Following the very first shark attack (which was, by far, the best of the lot), Jaws&#x27; story steadily lost serious momentum as the dramatic edge of this tale spiralled hopelessly downward at a constant rate.  It&#x27;s really hard for me to believe that Jaws actually thrilled audiences to pieces back in 1975. If you ask me - This Spielberg &#x22;Creature Feature&#x22; has got to be one of the most over-rated and undeservedly praised horror movies of all time.  And what made Jaws even more difficult to enjoy was that the principal characters were all impossible to like. I mean - As an example - Can you imagine a mayor (who was well-aware of the shark attacks) actually pressuring citizens to get back into the water regardless of the great risk that this posed to their very lives?   All-in-all - I&#x27;d say that Jaws came very close to being a total dud, in my books. And, besides the laughable, old-school shark effects, I thought that Quint&#x27;s inevitable demise was one of the worst staged moments of ultra-violence that I&#x27;ve seen in a mighty long time.  In conclusion - Spielberg, as a director (then &#x26; now), is certainly far from being the genius film-maker that so many of his devoted fans make him out to be."
"I still have mixed feelings about this movie. When I first saw it - on TV, in about 1985 - I was 9 years old. Having seen it, I immediately (together with my friend) love those fascinating, majestic fish. I started reading, learning and collecting everything I could find on sharks. I learned their Latin names, even though, obviously, I didn't speak Latin yet! I filled many copybooks with my notes, my drawings (and I *could* draw :), sketches and cutouts - everythingI still have mixed feelings about this movie. When I first saw it - on TV, in about 1985 - I was 9 years old. Having seen it, I immediately (together with my friend) love those fascinating, majestic fish. I started reading, learning and collecting everything I could find on sharks. I learned their Latin names, even though, obviously, I didn't speak Latin yet! I filled many copybooks with my notes, my drawings (and I *could* draw :), sketches and cutouts - everything I could find on sharks (And the task wasn't so easy for a 9 year old - these were 1980s and it was not USA with its superb libraries available!) I was fascinated by sharks - to this day they remain among my favorite animals and remember everything about them, even though I'm as far from biology and zoology as can be! And then I learned that most people's reaction to &quot;Jaws&quot; was not admiration and respect for those wonderful creatures that sharks are, but fear and hatred! I was shocked - how could anyone hate sharks? I was sure everyone would realize how false the very idea of &quot;Jaws&quot; was, and understand that the movie is nothing but a 100% untrue, unrealistic fairy tale with horror elements - a modern Brothers Grimm equivalent! But obviously, many people believed it and as a result, supported the criminal idea of killing sharks. What a sick thing to do, I thought! Couldn't they separate the truth from the movie? Didn't they know how fabulous and actually not at all aggressive toward humans sharks had always been? Apparently, they didn't... and many grew to hate sharks *because* of &quot;Jaws&quot;!  To sum it up - I would give the movie 9 stars for its value entertainment and minus 100 stars for what it did to sharks. My final verdict, then? I give it (? :) stars. As for the advice, I would tell you to read a few good books on sharks and watch a few good documentaries before seeing &quot;Jaws&quot;, especially if your opinion on sharks is not favorable."
"Without question, Robert Shaw's character of Quint was by far the most interesting. My only criticism is that he should have had more time on camera. This movie doesn't really stand up today, however, Shaw's portrayal of Quint is always fascinating to watch.  It's a shame Hollywood lost one it's greatest performers."
"Sure Jaws started a massive monster movie craze which has lasted all the way up to the present day, an was undisputedly a huge box office success worldwide, but that isn't saying it's necessarily a great or necessarily good movie.  I always found this film good in places but overall the viewing experience is an overlong and generally unpleasant one.  This film has all the essentials of a good shark movie, the 3 R's... yeah Roy, Richard, and Robert.  Yes, the acting in this film is surprisingly top-notch for the genre, even Shaw who almost overdoes his thick seaman drawl to the point where it often becomes hard to understand.  There's also a classic musical score by John Williams, who with the Star Wars and Indiana Jones tracks has become one of the most successful composers in history, film or otherwise.  Probably the best aspect though is the photography which looks even more mystifying at night-time with an almost silvery-great look to the water than it does during the day.  There, so it's a good movie but the hype surrounding it is totally overblown.  First of all, there's not really much in the way of action in this film.  There only are 4 actual shark attacks over the course of the film's 120+ minute running time.  The film slows down terribly near the end with the three men endlessly bantering amongst themselves ending with several repetitive scenes of them shooting harpoon after harpoon into the shark.  Maybe it's just the overfamiliarity of the subject matter that has come over the years, but the scene has very little in the way of tension.  The mechanical sharks look awfully cheesy during some of the close-up shots revealing some wrinkles in the rubber nose.  On top of that, the ending was completely ridiculous, in that there was no way the guy could have gotten out of the cage and hid from the shark for several minutes.  So to conclude, this film is a good movie, but it never was really worthy of the classic status its overblown hype has brought it."
"As a scary movie, this movie fulfills. It did such a great job that, on many vacations to Mexico and Hawaii, as well as to Australia, New Zealand, the Cook Islands, etc., I didn&#39;t go in water past my knees. Ever. And I&#39;m not alone in knowing it traumatized an entire generation of potential swimmers, divers, et al.  I thought I&#39;d challenge myself this summer and face the fear head on. I took an open water dive course (where I didn&#39;t think of sharks once underwater, knowing that my &#39;buddy&#39; was more of a danger) -- and then watched &#39;Sharkwater&#39;.  If you&#39;re terrified of sharks because of &#39;Jaws&#39;, I implore you to watch &#39;Sharkwater&#39;. Our Stephen Spielberg did a hell of a job in scaring the crap out of people, and I&#39;ll give him that. But the world&#39; s shark population has decreased by an insane amount in the last 10 years because people don&#39;t care about these animals -- not pandas, not elephants, not cuddly -- but millions killed for fins, and trust me, peeps, sharks are incredibly important to the planetary ecosystem.  &#39;Jaws&#39; did a great job in terrifying people, but it&#39;s not real, and it&#39;s not the truth."
"This one has the distinction of being the first film to reach (and surpass) the $100 million mark during its initial theater run.  If you haven't seen it, then you've probably heard something about it.  Some of Jaws' best scenes of fright / suspense (1 voting point for each scene) occur when we merely imagine the great white shark (25 feet long!) may soon surface and bare several rows of jagged, triangular teeth.  When we finally get a look at the man-eating fish, it turns out to be a machine with unconvincing--and unnatural--dewlaps that form around the corners of its mouth during rare moments when the shark is not shown chomping into tourists.  I saw this one at a tender age.  I was glued to my seat when, in the film, a beach full of terrified swimmers race over each other after somebody spots the all to familiar dorsal fin poking out of the water.  During production, the machine-shark was dubbed &quot;Bruce,&quot; after Spielberg's lawyer.  All in all, this suspenser is worth a viewing... too bad computers in 1975 weren't sophisticated enough to erase those goofy, over-lapping hinges on 'Bruce's' mouth."
"I rented this just a few years ago, wondering if it would still hold its own after the many suspense thrillers I have seen. Well, for me it did not. I was not interested in the characters, I wanted Jaws to eat them all, and I did not feel the suspense. Maybe it is one of those movies you should never rent, only see on the big screen. I was just completely bored."
"It constantly astounds me that this film is held in such high regard by so many people.  In fact, I might add, I find it equally astounding that Steven Spielberg has earned such a good reputation for his endless series of childish and idiotic films.   Anyway, I digress.   Firstly, let&#x27;s get the special effects off the table: I don&#x27;t care that they&#x27;re terrible. That doesn&#x27;t influence my opinion of this film because there are plenty of films with poor special effects that I enjoy. A genuinely brilliant film can survive such a flaw.  The trouble with this movie is the same kind of issue which plagues 99% of Spielberg&#x27;s work: It&#x27;s childish.   There&#x27;s no menace, nothing genuinely scary. (And no, I don&#x27;t mean it requires gore to be scary. The Omen is a fine example of a fairly gore- free movie which is utterly terrifying.)  It&#x27;s simply boring. The characters are entirely impossible to like or care about.   The music - as one might expect from a childish composer like John Williams who is so aptly suited to a childish film maker like Steven Spielberg - is abysmal. It&#x27;s trite and idiotic and never even approaches anything menacing of fear-inducing. (In fact, here&#x27;s yet another moment to use The Omen as a contrast: Jerry Goldsmith&#x27;s score was possibly the most brilliantly terrifying film score ever written.)  I&#x27;ve watched this mountain of crap on more than one occasion, trying to find some shred of merit in it, but I can&#x27;t. There is nothing good to say about it.   Ironically enough, I did actually enjoy the book as a bit of quick entertainment. But whatever appeal there was in it, it certainly didn&#x27;t translate to the screen.  The 70s produced some fantastic horror films. But it also produced some complete and utter garbage. Jaws belongs in the latter category. It&#x27;s one of those intensely overrated bits of bile that is best left forgotten rather than immortalised.  As far as Spielberg goes, Duel (1971) is actually far more deserving of praise than Jaws ever will be."
"Dreyfuss can&#x27;t act his way out of a soggy paper sack. Spielberg started out cheesy and never lost his knack. One of the worst uses of celluloid and time ever.  They said I can&#x27;t submit this review without ten lines of text. There isn&#x27;t ten lines of text that is worthy of use on this flick. Don&#x27;t waste your time unless you want to see a farce with a fake rubber fish with foam skin. No plot, totally predictable.  The only saving grace is Roy Scheider. He is totally wasted in this, but his five minutes on-screen blunts the pain of the rest of the movie."
"Just a waste of time....very dated and bad effects... how can you be positive about a film like this...??? Even in the time of release , i never understood how people can be thrilled about it... To resume , i can only say that it is one of the worst films ever made.... Nevertheless , the key roles have decent acting for that time. The shark is a monster that are visible by !) miles , that it is made of bad plastic...:-) Also the reactions and bites are poor and clumsy... The soundtrack is monotone but very recognizable... and that is the strongest point of the whole film...  For me , it is a complete riddle why these film is in the top250"
"Oh sure, it scared me. But I was 6 when I first saw this, and even then I thought my own shadow was scarrier.  Here we have yet another overrated &quot;classic&quot; that has distorted the image of modern horror. Snail-paced and lousy. rent &quot;Deep Blue Sea&quot; instead, or hell, I'd recommend Shark Attack 2 over this."
"1/10  The idea was way too simple, just an angry and ruthless shark swimming around and eating defenceless people.   When I was 6 I was really scared of it, bloody water and all those documentaries about sharks attacking people. But now I grew up and probably also grew out of flicks like this. It isn&#x27;t even so funny now. It&#x27;s just dull, boring and unwatchable.  I don&#x27;t know how a thinking person call it &#x22;the best horror&#x22;. It&#x27;s just a clich&#xE9;d thriller with some major flaws.  Watch Alien - it&#x27;s a true horror."
"worst story, paper-thin plot, worst effects, worst music. I can't understand why more than 25% of the votes on this movie votes a 10.... few options; they are all liars, or don't know anything about quality-motion-pictures..."
"Listen, no one should see any horror movies ever, ever, ever, because when it comes down to it, they just breed or perpetuate fear inside us all ALL. That being said, if you choose to subject yourself to such destructive media, at least have sense enough to protect the innocent and Do Not Let Any Child Watch Jaws Or Other Horror Films. I speak from experience when I say these words. At the tender age of 10 years old my dear mother allowed my sister and I to eat spaghetti (of all foods) on TV trays as we ignorantly watched Jaws mesmerized by the suspense and gore only to our demise as potential ocean lovers. I am 31 years old now and am still working hard to rid myself of &quot;sharkaphobia&quot; (or whatever the psychological term is). Have some common sense parents!!!!"
"The second time I&#39;ve watched this i seriously had doubts in Steven Stielbergs skills as a director, but then again it was made in 1975. This music was unbearably boring to sit through. Directors must realise that blood and gore in a film isn&#39;t what makes this type of film good. in 1975 m y opinion will have been a lot different, but its 2006 now and it bores me to watch this film. The only part of this film that was at the least mildy frightening was not frightening at all, it gave you a shock. Nothing more. People who love this film have the right to their opinions, but in my opinion this is one of the worst of Spielberg. Go watch War of the worlds or Close Encounter of The Third Kind. These are the true greatest Spielberg films."
This movie is HORRIBLE!!!  Definitely Spielberg's worst!  The story is so stupid.  The fact is that shark's rarely eat humans. Overall I would've given it a zero but considering it was made in '75 I give it a one.  I wish it could've more like Deep Blue Sea which actually had a plot and a reason for the shark's violent behavior.
"This movie is absolutely boring.  The shark in the movie is as twice as big as a normal shark and he's so smart.  Spielberg is one of the worst directors ever.  The shark gets out of traps.  To tell you the truth, I haven't seen the whole movie in a long time, but from what I remeber it's boring.  Very bad acting.  Don't watch it."
"I've seen some terrible movies in my time but this one really takes the prize as one of the worst.  As for suspense, I'm more scared by Monsters Inc and the shark is so fake and unrealistic its pathetic.  At least Deep Blue Sea had sharks that looked real and could actually install some element of fear in the viewer.  And the actors looked as embarrassed starring in the film as I was watching it."
"Wake me up when this film gets interesting.  All the talk about this film made me watch it for the first time.  I only made it half-way before literally falling asleep.  Sharks aren't frightening if you have enough sense to stay out of the water, plus the negative stereotypes perpetuated by this film probably killed more sharks than can be imagined.  A predator is a predator, nature needs them films probably don't though."
"The Matrix is foremost a visual effects movie, and its legacy is its range of revolutionary effects. It is filled with effects that hadn&#x27;t been seen before, especially bullet time. The movie is great to look at. But otherwise, I don&#x27;t see much of the appeal of The Matrix. The premise of the film has been praised for its originality, but these ideas are nothing new. The idea of robots holding power over man has been used in almost every work of science fiction ever written. The idea of this world being a dream is nothing new either. The earliest use of this idea I&#x27;m aware of is one of Shakespeare&#x27;s poems, and I&#x27;m sure even he wasn&#x27;t the first to use this idea. Nothing happens in the film. There is no real plot. Neo finds out about the Matrix, leaves it, Morpheus is kidnapped, and that&#x27;s it. Nothing happens. No lesson is learned, and any character development is not believable. Neo is unconfident, and then suddenly he&#x27;s tough and ready to handle anything. No transition happens. I never found myself caring about Neo. Part of this is because he is played by Keanu Reeves, who is arguably the most boring actor under the sun, with one facial expression and forced way of speaking dialogue. Neo is not written as an interesting character. He has no personality whatsoever, and no virtues to make you respect him. As I said before, when he does change it comes out of nowhere. None of the other characters are particularly interesting either. However, the visual effects and action sequences are good to watch, and thus I was a bit distracted from the weak story, characters, and unoriginal ideas. C+"
"I guess everyone has once seen a church service young American denominations-style. It&#x27;s like female choir is singing, someone&#x27;s playing synth or guitar, and a priest in front of them shouts &#x22;God is love&#x22;, and &#x22;Jesus loves you.&#x22; The lambs shout back these things and all other stuff which is familiar to everyone who has heard something of Christianity.  &#x22;The Matrix&#x22; has very much in common with such ceremonies. An action movie with an original aesthetics and slow motion can be interesting to watch, just like listening to gospels is sometimes an unalloyed pleasure. But the problem about &#x22;The Matrix&#x22; is its annoying sermon. With an incredible solemnity and wannabe-prophetical intonation we&#x27;re fed with an alloy of the most common places philosophy knows. The famous &#x22;There is no spoon&#x22; phrase - Neo&#x27;s pupils widen, now he understands everything. A stupid watcher is supposed here to make two or three thinking operations and feel satisfacted for being smart. The intention is simple - or I give too much credit for Wachowskis, maybe this half- philosophy is really the ultimate one for them.  It&#x27;s possible to associate solipsism and platonism with a modern virtual reality concept cleverly and softly. Wachowskis, however, do it boldly and pushily. Even the spoon quote is not enough, they also use messiah figure, i.e. Neo himself. Now it&#x27;s a serious business. Neo&#x27;s gonna show people what they don&#x27;t wanna see (quote-unquote). The film starts to fail in amusement at once because Neo hogs the story&#x27;s blanket; however, film&#x27;s grandiloquence increases to an unbelievable level.  Thus, &#x22;The Matrix&#x22; is an example of movie which is trying to seem what it&#x27;s not. Wachowskis try to insert their simple story of people in stylish black coats into as many classical contexts as possible: here we have Nebuchdenazzar, and messiah, and also Morpheus, - whilst the ideological concept is more like of a high school student&#x27;s essay on a subject of philosophy, compiled in one night before deadline. That&#x27;s what is the word &#x22;tedious&#x22; exists.  Nevertheless, it occurred to be the rightest thing. (By the way, effectiveness of such model is well-known: in literature it&#x27;s exploited by Richard Bach and Paolo Coelho, to name a few.) More than ten years have passed, and still millions of Wachowskis&#x27; lambs singing and dancing, and repeating whatever the siblings say. &#x22;There is no spoon,&#x22; chant Wachowskis. &#x22;There is no spoon,&#x22; echoes the congregation deliriously."
"This is a very good movie. Visually, The Matrix is pretty much at the top of the Sci-Fi genre. The plot is solid, Keanu Reeves doesn&#39;t suck, and it&#39;s a unique film.  But, why is it overrated? Just because I said the acting doesn&#39;t suck does not mean that it&#39;s particularly good. This movie is good, but it&#39;s certainly not in the top 100 films of all time. There are much better movies out there that rely on clever story telling, have better actors, and there are some with equally as cool visuals. If you know what to look for, the plot is pretty predictable. All of the foreshadowing in this movie insults your intelligence rather than adding to the tension. Also, the slow motion sequences become stupid after watching the movie a couple of times, and they are in an abundance.  I used to be a fan of this movie, but once I saw Dark City I realized how much room for improvement there truly was."
"A lot of people like The Matrix because they think it&#x27;s deep. In fact its apparent deepness is its primary selling point, and is what has turned it into a blockbuster and trendsetter. Just ponder over this, because there&#x27;s a contradiction here. Whenever has Hollywood hit the jackpot by being profound, either in a philosophical or religious way? Something strange is going on here. A lot of the mystery disappears after we identify exactly what belief the Wachowski brothers are purveying here. It&#x27;s Scientology. They are telling us that the power of the mind is able to free us from the matrix of the senses. The scientologists are anxious to free themselves and become thetans &#x96; omnipresent and omni-powerful minds.  Now, the success of The Matrix tells me just one thing, that people have become closet scientologists. They don&#x27;t grapple with the issue of &#x22;appearance and reality&#x22; in the way scientologists do, but the core belief is there. They might call themselves an atheist, or an evolutionist (&#x22;We only accept what science tells us&#x22;), but that&#x27;s only an excuse for not really sorting out what they really believe in. So, along comes a film called The Matrix and it hits a chord. They can identify with Neo because they are aware of a thing called corporate media manipulating reality for them. They are also brought up on computer games, and so it&#x27;s not too big a leap to imagine a virtual world completely replacing the real one. I can see how closet scientologists can completely immerse themselves in the plight of Neo and his Christ-like struggle to free humanity from the clutches on the senses and become omni-powerful minds (in the parlance of the film, taking them to promised city of Zion).  In that sense, the film is profound, in that it resonates with popular belief so accurately. There is just enough spattering of science and philosophy to take them in. People want to believe in science, but they don&#x27;t want to be troubled like Einstein was (&#x22;Does God play dice?&#x22;). The most convincing part of the film is where Morpheus demonstrates to Neo how virtual reality is created. This, and the recurring motif of &#x22;freeing the mind&#x22; are the only authentic components of the film. The rest is a conventional Hollywood action flick, and one that is totally at odds with the underlining philosophy. Considering the struggle with agent Smith, and the frequent popping in and out of virtual reality, nothing makes sense. This is where real confusion starts to parade as profundity.  I always thought that it was only intellectuals who mistook confusion for profundity, but apparently normal cinema-goers do too. Maybe intellectuals and Hollywood action flick fans have something in common after all. They both worship the rational mind. And when rationality delivers a mess, the mess itself is seen as something profoundly rational. Maybe that&#x27;s the crowing achievement of the Wachowski brothers. They have composed the &#x22;Being and Time&#x22; for the masses. But Heidegger&#x27;s philosophical book was mostly pretentious garbage, and so is the Matrix."
"With its trite Kafka-wannabe subtext and pretensions to profundity, this badly acted (Reeves is like a lump of wood, with a permanently perplexed look on his dumb face), poorly scripted, mess of a movie had me yawning and, at times, bristling with irritation. The stupid, faux philosophy about different realities was clearly ripped from a film called Dark City, which was far more chilling and unhinged, and managed to steer clear of the juvenile philosophical clap-trap that infected The Matrix (even the title is lame).  Its only saving grace was some innovatory and influential action sequences and a good Don Davis score.But the action eventually seemed to contrive to divert the viewer from the paucity of original ideas exhibited, and culminated in a ridiculous, Dodge City-style shoot &#x27;em up that had me laughing out loud. Then Neo turns into Superman: yep,s-o-o-o original. Then there&#x27;s the bit where Neo is resurrected by the kiss by Trinity. It&#x27;s ET and Snow White and every other now-predictable clich&#xE9; in the cannon of story telling. To top that Fishburne&#x27;s character whispers in hushed awe: &#x22;He&#x27;s The One&#x22;. I would have laughed if it wasn&#x27;t so pathetic.  In another comment someone described this and the sci-fi benchmark for all others to follow. Excuse me?! Show some me actual science in this muddled subterranean labyrinth, then I might reconsider. I won&#x27;t even comment on the ensuing two movies,with the preposterous Christ fixation that dominated the third. Horrible, style-over-content rubbish."
"You sit and wonder... when is something going to happen? You wait and wait... So the story starts in de first part by giving you a different view on the world we live in (which we are not aware of...interesting). After you realise this the movie just crashes. The screenwriter obviously had no idea where to go from this point on and slows the story down. There is some action which leads to nowhere. The story doesn't progress and you're just waiting for the story to start and progress. The main reason you would want to see this movie is because of the special effects and at some points a lot of action is going on but... the story isn't going anywhere which makes you feel like the movie just goes on and on and on... In the end I felt that its a shame, because a good idea got slaughtered by a bad screenwriter. I gave 2 point just for the idea."
"Take a bit from &quot;Men in Black&quot; (leave the humor out) something from &quot;Last Man Standing&quot; (leave good acting out) from &quot;Twelve Monkeys&quot; (leave real suffering and compassion out) and take half a dozen other ones (like some &quot;Martial Arts&quot;) mix it and get a block buster. Hey, add a deep philosophical idea like that maybe everything is unreal!  It sounds like a joke but it is not. They actually got away with it with &quot;The Matrix&quot;. I mean probably every bright 15 year old comes up with the idea one day that everything is fake that somehow only he (or she?) can see through it. And I do not say you cannot make a film out of it but has the result to be like this? The Matrix is by far the most stupid film I ever saw. I want to believe in bizarre concepts but this is so mind-boggingly stupid that it would mean too much honor to even start talking about it. I have seen a lot of senseless violence but this must get a price for the best pretext: They can &quot;beam&quot; into a particular &quot;space-time&quot; point of the program but not quite so our heroes have to literally shoot their way through. Amazing! The sad thing about it is that people actually enjoy the crap which makes me think that the Matrix probably is true after all. Since it seems unlikely that real people with a mind of their own can take the film seriously or enjoy it there must be some brain-washing or programming going on. My girl friend nearly left me once because I liked a &quot;horrid&quot; movie like &quot;Twelve Monkeys&quot; and even she liked The Matrix. She probably hopes that Jesus will look and act like Keanu Reeves at his next coming. What a depressing thought. If the only good thing to say about a film is that visual effects were up to standard one should leave it. The sun glasses were pretty cool though."
"People had told me two things about this movie. First, that it was difficult to understand. It isn't. The plot is very simple and understandable. Second, that this was a great movie. It isn't. The plot is so understandable that it's boring. Almost everything in this movie is a rehash of science fiction themes that have come up over and over again.   It's somewhere around the year 2199. We know that because Morpheus (played - well played I concede - by Lawrence Fishburne) tells us. Machines have conquered humanity and taken over. OK. I can think of at least one original Star Trek episode and the entire series Battlestar Galactica that revolved around that. The whole thing takes place inside a series of computer programs. OK. The holodeck on the Starship Enterprise, or any number of movies about Virtual Reality spring to mind. One person (Neo, played by Keanu Reeves) will save the world. Hmmm. Star Trek IV: The Voyage Home: &quot;Captain Kirk, you and your crew have saved this planet.&quot; In short, there just isn't anything original in this story. How it makes it to #31 on the all time list (at the time of writing) is beyond me.  There are some good things in this movie. There must have been a massive special effects budget, because the special effects are superb. No argument there. But great special effects - and even some good performances by Fishburne and Reeves (and a drily humorous performance by Hugo Weaving as Agent Smith) don't make up for the basic weakness of this entirely unoriginal story.  2/10 - solely for the special effects."
"Really, my summary says it all.  It's a cute premise overwhelmed by its need to be cool at the expense of plot, characters, meaning, or consistency. It has philosophical and literary pretensions that come off as kindergarten philosophy at best and ham-handed at worst. Luckily, these can be ignored fairly easily.  Good action sequences for the most part. Most of the cast is summer-movie capable. i.e. Their acting is neither embarrassing nor impressive. Keanu gives his second-best performance ever (after Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure). Unfortunately, that is likely merely the convergence of his naturally confused look with the confusion inherent to the character.  All things considered a fun action movie provided you don't buy the hype telling you that it is so much more.  By the way, stop with this one. This movie is watchable and complete in its own and is only degraded by its truly dreadful sequels. If this movie is the triumph of style over substance, its sequels are the cruel beating and maiming of substance by style gone bad."
"I have heard so much about the Matrix and finally watched it for the first time this weekend.  Boy, were there lots of action sequences. Lots and lots and lots of action sequences. You can feel the filmmakers just trying to top the last sequence instead of doing something like advancing the plot or developing the characters. Unless you think the action sequence is the be-all-and-end-all of movies, all that action just gets boring after a while. I have nothing against whiz-bang special effects as long as they do something worthwhile to move the film along (the Lord of the Rings films are good at this). But this is just not happening with the Matrix.  The Matrix concept itself is thought-provoking. Why isn't it developed more? The fact that this monumental struggle for the soul of humanity ends up with a shoot-out, a helicopter-dangling rescue sequence and a martial arts fight is almost laughable. It's like saying the mysteries of the universe can be unraveled by watching beer commercials. If you want to see an ending that leaves you with something worth chewing on, you'll be sadly disappointed (as I was).  As for other elements of the movie -- Keanu Reeves, as much as I usually enjoy watching him, was extremely wooden. Fishburne and Moss were good at what they did, but their parts were pretty two-dimensional. I couldn't get emotionally involved with any of the characters, which is ultimately the fault of the writers. The cinematography and &quot;style&quot; of the film and the sets is pretty cool to look at. However, the whole black clothes and sunglasses motif is just a little bit hokey after a while. And the agents -- I swear they look just like the bad aliens in Brother From Another Planet -- I kept expecting them to shriek at each other.  I look at it this way - people who think that sitting in front of their tubes and playing video games is a worthwhile way to spend their lives will probably love this movie. People who want something more will think it's pretty hollow. It's a shame because the concept had a lot of potential, but the filmmakers took the easy way out."
"I do love the matrix, but is a very long and complicated film and every time I have watched it, I have never got it, hopefully one day I will, but I do recommend this film. There some very talented actors in this film and they all play their roles very well. Not all of it is complicated though, don&#x27;t want to pull the film down because it is a very good film and the director has a brilliant mind. Think you have to be someone with a very intelligent brain to figure out which is the real world and which one isn&#x27;t. Overall this is a very good film, I have only marked it down because I have never really understood the film."
"When Ted, sorry, NEO, and Morpheus sit down in a white backdrop and Fishburne asks, &quot;What is the 'Matrix,' you have undoubtedly witnessed one of the worst scenes ever in cinematic history. THE MATRIX is very betraying unto itself, for what good is kung fu if it is not blended in with what also has made the BUFFY THE VAMPIRE SLAYER television series so great? THE MATRIX needed kung fu and sex to blend in with what already was boring. The special effects and Hugo Weaving are great, but everything else lacks.  What is the Matrix? A computer hacker is about to find out the hard way.  Bad, bad, bad acting, almost as terrible as BLADE RUNNER. What a waste of special effects, though, since the camera trick was very revolutionary for its time. Oh well. Science fiction deserves better than THE MATRIX, for an entire movie with guns and kung fu should have been far more fun than becoming downright serious in its lunacy. Boring."
Many of the effects in this movie have been copied over and over.  This movie has excellent action and effects but I found the story too unbelievable to enjoy.  I check my watch several times while in the theater......
"You know, once the effects have been copied a hundred times over, a movie has to have something to it to stand up on its own. Matrix has not much: a weak plot, spotty acting, and canned dialog. The basic premise of the movie is compelling, but now that the special effects have slipped from groundbreaking to ordinary, this thing doesn't offer much."
"I was floored to see this idiotic movie on the list of IMDB's top 250 movies.    There are so many plot holes and laughable failures in this movie as to make it on my list of the WORST 250 movies.  Let's see, some alien force is advanced enough to take over the world and to create an alternate universe, but can't figure out how to make an energy source to power it all?  They have to use human energy?  How about cow patties or something like nuclear power?  Totally stupid.  And the time-worn concept of the stranger somehow possessing the knowledge to save the world.  How brilliantly non-original!  And if you are hurt or killed in this virtual other world, then you somehow die or are hurt in the real world?  This rating just shows how bankrupt Hollywood is; there just isn't much coming out of the mainstream studio system that is challenging and interesting and truly great films."
"ladies and gentlefolk let me give you the biggest pile of overrated nonsense in the history of film.  Let me start with the plot:- great, superb, GENIUS....shame about the execution.  Some great GREAT ideas, but when you get the tree-bark esque acting skills of keanu reeves to carry them off, you just know, somewhere inside of you that this film will be somewhat..IFFY.  Ok now onto the acting.......ok so we're done! (im sorry but who the hell pays keanu reeves $20m dollars to act....please keanu, if you are reading.....lend me a tenner mate!!).  Ok so the effects.......oh my.......the effects are stunning, simply gorgeous, rippling bullet effects, that wee spinning camera job.....FANTASTIC, i suppose you wont feel cheated spending money on seeing this title as the effects are worth admission price alone.  now, this does NOT deserve to be in the top 50 greatest films of all time, oh no!, how it gets above such underrated classics such as AMERICAN PSYCHO and HEAT is beyond me.  so in short, THE MATRIX isnt a BAD movie, its just so highly overrated.  I think for me, the feeling I got after watching the matrix, was the same feeling when i spent $1 dollar on a lotto scratchcard and won $1! that little feeling 'oh!! ive won!!...oh wait...'  THE MATRIX - 6/10 (ok so i rated it five!!....shoot me!)"
"the only reason people considered this movie to be one of the best is because of all the special effects.  that is what most people liked about the movie.  I thought it sucked, it was boring.  As someone who is not into action, the film left me dissatisfied.  I think that it doesn't matter if a movie is drama, action, or comedy, if it is a good movie it will satisfy a viewer who isn't into that particular genre of films.  the matrix sucked."
"i saw this movie BEFORE the hype, and it was just another movie. It didn't shock me or effect me at all. sure, the special effects were cool, but the plot was..well, recycled. i didn't get an original feel from it. The acting was VERY mediocre. Keanu Reeves is horrible, and will never be able to carry a movie. Carrie-Anne Moss and Laurence Fishburne were good.However, I'm sick of people LOVING this and saying it is the best PICTURE of 1999! if you want to see a REALLY good movie, go check out CROUCHING TIGER,HIDDEN DRAGON or BILLY ELLIOT....  5/10"
"The good: The action scenes involving guns are original. The &quot;frozen moment&quot; camera effect is well done.  The bad: The script is uneven and horribly horribly written. I mean Saturday morning cartoons are better written than this, not even good cartoons either, I think that the average episode of Voltron or Scooby Doo have more meaningful and profound scripts. The main characters can&#39;t even manage to be two dimensional.   The ugly: The acting is hideous, and I&#39;m not just talking about the spoken lines. I can almost hear Keanu saying &quot;dude&quot; after every line. Fishburne is also attains a whole new level of corniness, Mumra on Thundercats levels of melodrama. As in another over-hyped movie, Crouching Tiger etc. etc., no amount of special effects can disguise the fact that these people do not know martial arts. The fight scene between Fishburne and Reeves made me laugh out loud, and not in a happy way, more of a &quot;I can&#39;t believe how pathetic this is&quot; kind of defensive laugh. Hong Kong movies made in the late seventies have better wirework. The cookie cutter villain is actually the most compelling character, and that my friends is sad.   This is what really makes me nauseous: Two more movies are coming out. Umm... did I miss something here? I thought that the movie&#39;s only redeeming quality was the &quot;surprise&quot; midway through when we found out what &quot;The Matrix&quot; was. There&#39;s not much sequel material here to work with.  The first half of this movie is decent in that it doesn&#39;t really insult the viewer. As soon as Reeves wakes up in the tank, the movie becomes a laughable, pretentious Saturday morning cartoon. Junior high kids should eat it up, but any reasonably intelligent person who has read a book in his or her life will take absolutely nothing from this move of any lasting value. A truly mind-numbing movie."
"Perhaps not as clever as it thinks, but &quot;The Matrix&quot; totally surprised me. Am innovative, entertaining action film. The last 30 minutes reverts to normal violent shoot-outs, but up until then the film holds it's own. I won't mention the acting. It's all about the spectacle really.  I note some of the other reviewers took it seriously. Well calm down chaps, it's only a film."
"I can almost feel these highly capable filmmakers think : what a marvellous concept to make a film from. Virtual existence. But where does that leave me as viewer. Should I marvell at the special effects and the overall visual aspects of the movie? Should I see it as unpretentious entertainment (like wonderfull 'the Mummy')? No, because everyone is talking ssso ssserious all the time. And all sort of life philosophy stuff is thrown to my head. Should I see it as a timeless peace of art (like say a 'Kubrick')? Hahaha. Well it's a pity the life philosophy bits don't go beyond puberty stage then. So i'm left with nothing but marvellous visuals with a dirty tang and thus a mediocre viewing experience."
"Okay, I know a lot of heat is going to come my way for saying this, but I'm ready.  So, here goes:  I did NOT like this movie!  I'm not saying that it's terrible, just that it didn't move me the way that it seems to have touched some people's lives.  The perpetually perplexed Keanu Reeves is Thomas aka Neo, an office grunt/computer hacker who is recruited by the mysterious Morpheus (Laurence Fishburne)to free humanity from enslavement by machines.  It seems that the world that we are living in is all an illusion provided by free-thinking computers who are using people as batteries (Can I be an ENERGIZER?  They last longer).  The only thing standing between humanity and totally servitude are the Agents, led by the soulless Agent Smith (played by Hugo Weaving in a good performance).  Agents are the only ones who seem to have the ability to alter the reality around them, making them able to do fantastic things like dodge bullets and the like.  Neo is shown that he, too, can alter the world around him when Morpheus jumps from one roof to another a block away (to which Keanu gives his signature line:  &quot;Whoa!&quot;).  He is then trained in hand-to-hand combat, spaceship-piloting and the use of high-calibre automatic firearms.      This seems to provide the film with its strong suit:  Dazzling stunts and special effects.  However, I found the story to be just a little too pretentious.  I realize that there is a lot of symbolism within the story (most of it cribbed from the New Testament), but, while watching the movie and getting the messages of the movie, I half expected to see signposts appear saying CAUTION! METAPHORS AHEAD!  I did get a kick, however, out of the street intersections mentioned in the film where all of the &quot;exits&quot; were:  They are actually streets in Chicago, the Wachowski brothers' (and my) hometown.  As I said before, the special effects and stuntwork are fabulous.  In fact, I thought the film should have received Oscar nominations for its Art Direction and Costumes.  Beyond that, I thought THE MATRIX was nothing more than the longest, most expensive GAP commercial ever made.  For a better handling of this type of material, I suggest two films that could be combined to make a better MATRIX:  THE LAST DRAGON (for it's metaphysical message and martial arts action) and DARK CITY (for it's handling of a scary fantasy city under siege).      Okay, let the brickbats and/or bouquets fly . . . !"
"What is The Matrix? How could this computer generated machine rule our mind? How could this happen? The answers to these who-cares type questions are in the modern sci-fi thriller &quot;The Matrix.&quot; Do you know what The Matrix really is? It is a very boring science fiction film about a man's battle in a computer generated world. It is also a movie with some very bad acting that all stars with the king of bad acting- Keanu Reeves. Whoa! I forgot something else. It is also 7 dollars drown the drain if you check this one out in the theatre. I do have to admit that the special effects were spectacular. They are worth the price of admission ( maybe half-price) . Even though I loved the effects, I am going to have log off to &quot;The Matrix.&quot; *** Average"
"Superlative special effects, non-stop action, but no real plot, a total disregard for scientific realities, and lots of simplistic &quot;philosophy.&quot; Great eye candy and no substance combine to give an average film overall. A good movie to see when you just want to be entertained, without having to think too deeply."
"The Matrix combines an incoherent script with intoxication with special effects.  A large chunk of the film is a stretched out denouement in which all the characters, goodies and baddies, are equally invulnerable. Buildings are blown up, walls shattered and general mayhem occurs, but no main character is injured beyond biting their lips, and no motivation for any part of the action is even hinted at.  A Road Runner cartoon has been reissued with some live actors, and possibly some robots.  There is one laugh in the film, when Fishburne, after putting Reeves through substantial torture and fastening him down in what looks like a dentist's chair says ''Just try to relax''."
"I thought that The Matrix was one of the better action movies I have ever seen.  However, the depth that so many other people see, I do not.  It seems like the directors read some philosophy of knowledge, found enough of an idea to make a movie, and then quit.  The philosophy of this movie misses the entrie point of epistemology, which doesn't ask if we are in the true reality, but more what is reality, how do we interact with it, and how do we have knowledge of it. As far as acting, Fishburne was good, as was Weaving, but it seemed that Reeves and Moss were there so they could be seen in tight leather. The special effects are very well done, and I loved the training sessions. The directors do a good job of building the action and the suspence. Overall a good action movie, but little more."
"As much as I would like to say The Matrix is movie that I can suggest to all of you, I can't. Now, if you are only into special effect and action sequences that defy all laws of gravity, then disregard everything I am about to say. On the other hand, if you are interested in an good all around film, keep looking. This film wishes it was half as good as the extremely underrated Dark City. This film wishes it were deep, hence all of the not too subtle reference to Alice in Wonderland. This film wishes it had clever writers who did not come off as stealing every mediocre idea from much better sci-fi flicks. Finally, (and most of all) this film wishes that Keanu Reeves could act his way out of a paper bag. Unfortunately, none of these wishes came true and The Matrix is a third-rate sci-fi film with extra-ordinary special effects. It just goes to show that style can not substitute for substance."
"I had high hopes for this movie, being a huge fan of the &quot;what if none of this is real?&quot; genre, but I was disappointed.  The film does have a few things going for it - let me cover those first, since that won't take long.  The visuals are beautiful and stunning - whoever shot this movie is indeed an artist.  I can't remember a film that was this fascinating just to look at.  The film also has a creative and intriguing premise (which I can't mention, or it would spoil it).  Keanu Reeves, who is a horrible actor, is actually more tolerable in this flick than he has been in most of his others - mostly due to the fact that the role requires almost no acting.  Keanu does look good in the film, and Carrie-Ann Moss looks fantastic in tight PVC pants!  That's it for the good, now for the bad: the story has holes in it the size of Texas.  Is it really so hard to write a story that makes sense, that is tightly crafted?  Total Recall and The Terminator come to mind as examples of tightly written sci-fi films.  I can't go into the details of the many, many things that just don't make sense since it would spoil it for those who haven't seen it.  Did the writers not understand virtual reality at all, or did they just assume the audience was too ignorant to notice the absurdities and non-sensical aspects of their virtual world?  Seems like the makers of The Matrix just got lazy.  They had a great premise and Keanu Reeves, so they just threw in some extended slo-mo gunfights, kung-fu battles, lots of big explosions, a pounding soundtrack, and called it a day - very crass.  About those slo-mo gunfights, kung-fu battles, big explosions, and pounding soundtrack - they came across as very contrived - obviously hacked onto the story to make it an &quot;action&quot; movie.  How obviously formulaic!  I can just hear the producer saying &quot;We have a pretty good story here, but we want to make it an 'action' movie, so stick in these elements...&quot;.  This film had serious potential, but ended up as merely mediocre - what a shame.  5 out of 10."
"I've seen the rate of this movie and I can't believe it... Are you crazy? This movie must be the most overrated of IMDB with difference. If I had to say anything about it is one word: unbelievable. The plot is superficial and the pseudo-deep-philosophy all of you are talking about is bad builded (have you any idea of the electric potential of human neurones? My God! What a poor energy source for the Matrix!). All of you thinking that an Sci-Fic movie doesn't need logical don't know nothing about GOOD Sci-Fic.  I admit that the first part of the movie is decent: while Neo still ignores all about the Matrix there is an enigmatic atmosphere that gives suspense to the film. But the second part is boring and stupid. Just a lot of shot-sounds to turn everybody deaf. The fighting scenes made laugh all the theatre (suspension of disbelief? Ja! ) and when Carrie Ann Moss says she just needs a lesson to pilot the helicopter was ridiculous. However, I think Moss was the better of the cast. I've found Keanu too cold and Fishburne was as his character's name: Morpheus, that is, made me want to sleep. And the Oracle! Who casted that horrible actress?  The only good of the film was the a-la William Gibson cyber-style of costumes and the FX. Of course, nothing to be in the 26th place of top250. This film should *NOT* be neither in the top250 nor in the top500.  And how can you compare this with Philip K. Dick's Blade Runner???? Are you joking, KIDS?  I give it a 5 of 10 out and only for the FX."
"The first half of THE MATRIX is pretty darn good.  After a bizarre and surreal action sequence where the black-clad Trinity (Carrie-Ann Moss) displays superhuman abilities in eluding some Men In Black who also have superhuman abilities, we meet the plot.  He is called Neo (Keanu Reeves), who finds himself being contacted by two seemingly omniscient characters: the aforementioned Trinity and a man called Morpheus whom we at first know only by his voice.  They try, not always successfully, to guide Neo out of the danger posed by the Men In Black (who we learn are called Agents, but Men In Black gives you a better idea of what they look like).  The movie to this point is great fun, with a palpable aura of mystery making your pulse pound as you wonder what the explanation is for what's happening to Neo.  Better yet, the explanation we get from Morpheus is actually moderately imaginative and makes at least some sense (although one wonders how humans can live without a solar-based food chain beneath them; I can't explain more without giving too much away).  Unfortunately, at this point, THE MATRIX is only halfway done.  The second half is a nonstop pastiche of action cliches and mystical mumbo-jumbo, as Neo, supposedly the most important person in the world for Morpheus to find, actually achieves very little other than to become your routine Hollywood superhero and pull off a depressingly prosaic rescue mission.  Characters come back from the dead literally by magic, or with no explanation at all.  The action sequences are competently done, with an eerie musical backdrop sounded out by cartridge cases clinking against the floor, but they can't disguise the essential problem: THE MATRIX runs out of plot an hour before it ends.  Keanu Reeves is not improving with age; the way he expresses disbelief will have you expressing your own disbelief, and there is no chemistry between him and the attractive Moss.  Laurence Fishburne's character is poorly sketched, leaving him nothing to do except be very, very cool, but he does that very well.  Moss does her action scenes with verve, but delivers her dialogue weakly.  Hugo Weaving, playing one of the Men In Black, is sinister, inhuman, and a lot of fun to watch.  A number of supporting characters who assist Trinity and Morpheus are well played.  Regrettably, THE MATRIX is yet another case of Hollywood putting excellent production values into creating a half-baked story.  The same themes were much better examined just last year, in THE TRUMAN SHOW and DARK CITY.  And by no means does this film deserve comparison to BLADE RUNNER, whose plot dealt with the line between man and machine in a way that this movie never approaches.  THE MATRIX is mildly entertaining, but still greatly overrated.  Rating: ** out of ****."
"I've always loved science fiction and I'm always been able to forget the little scientific violations. But I hate when someone pretends to make me forget about logic.  The Matrix is just an impossible concept. You can forget the technology involved, you can think (as you do in Star Wars, for example) that the science has evolved enough. But you can't accept when they try to say that A and NOT A are true at the same time. You can't have millions of people (with different ages) living in the same unreal world if it doesn't evolve, if it's always at the end of the 20th century. You can do it by making a special Matrix for every human being (destroying the plot) or making the humans forget every 10 years (destroying the plot).  Good special effects. It's the best I can say about this movie. It's not too much."
"This movie has the best visual effects ever seen to date, better than Episode 1's effects. The only problem is though, this movie really is bad.  Every one has been walking around saying, that this movie is the best ever, because it has awesome fight scenes, awesome slow mo and awesome visual effects.  They never say the acting is fantastic, they never say the direction is good, and no one ever talks about the screenplay, because it's all so dodgy.  I have to hand it to the Wachowski brothers and the special visual effects team, for coming up with the idea of bullet time photography, it looks spectacular.  DO waste two hours and fifteen minutes of your life to see five different bullet time photography shots. Don't expect too much from the acting."
"In a parallel universe William Gibson knocked this story out in a morning, read it back and consigned it to oblivion. In the alternate reality that is late nineties cinema the story has resurfaced and stretched to over two hours. You can tick off all the desirable style elements, herds of animals contributing to the de rigeur black leather, more pistols packed than Lara Croft with the endless ammo cheat and Keanu Reeves, the most other-worldly element in the whole competent but workmanlike effort."
"OK, OK, the trailer sold this movie, but to have this monistic babble at #18 spot of ALL the cinema?!! I give you that Matrix is better than Arma-hehe-don or Starship Bloopers of last year but to seriously consider this live action comics, where special effects barely leave time to dreadful rendering of cartoon guide to philosophy a bona fide movie is too much."
Being awed by such superb visual effects and intriguing story while feeling guilty and depressed at the atrocious level of  violence in &quot;The Matrix&quot; made my movie  going experience fall flat. Unfortunately barely worth the $8.00 per ticket. I  give it a 6.
"When my friend and I entered the theatre, we raised the average age by at least 20 years. We are over 60, you see.  Of course, the kids loved the flick. It was loud and violent, yet full of the most advanced special effects around. As my friend observed, &quot;It was candy for the senses!&quot;  But he liked it better than I did. Albeit, the plot was surreal. (We always knew that reality was an illusion.) But MATRIX presented details regarding the cosmos and its ontological implications in a much different manner. Humans are mere crops being fertilized by machines who have evolved as our superiors.  My friend gives the movie an 8/10 for style, creativity, and sensual intensity. I looked forward to going home and listening to soft, soothing music. If MATRIX is candy for the senses, I must be a diabetic. To me the dark and stark violence was more invasive than satisfying.  But, what the hell! That's why we have two thumbs."
"The plot moves quickly and keeps one's interest, and the special effects are cool.  Those are the reasons why I voted as high as 5 on this very violent movie.  I found it disconcerting that lead characters wear black trenchcoats, sunglasses and combat boots while they indiscriminately kill innocent people especially in light of the recent shootings at Littleton, Colorado.  I suppose there may be people who think that human conscience is not dulled by viewing of this kind of gratuitous murder. As a counselor I cannot agree, and therefore I cannot recommend this movie."
"The thing I still don't understand is how so many people like this movie enough to give it a 10.  The dialogue was corny to the point where I literally laughed out loud more than once.  The acting was ok, except for Fishburne which is disappointing because I loved him in his other movies. Of course, with lines like his, its hard to pull it off without sounding cheesy.  The concept was great, and the story unfolded with pretty good execution.  But this is an effects movie pure and simple.  When you're watching a movie, and you can pinpoint exact scenes stolen from other movies, there's a problem.  All the action sequences were bit off John Woo and Mortal Kombat, the love story was ripped from Far and Away, and Neo's triumph at the end, &quot;My name... is Neo&quot; is from Roots.  GIVE ME A BREAK!! Is it not enough to pile on the cheese, but you have to rip other movies off so blatantly? I don't recommend this movie at all."
Dark City and The Truman Show were films that caused me to rethink my view of the world.  The Matrix attempted to copy the themes expressed in these films with little success.  It relied on energy and special effects to deliver its message.  I strongly suggest that this film be skipped in favor of the previously mentioned films.
"I heard someone once say that if you you like what someone else is doing artistically you should steal it from them, but The Matrix takes this a bit too far. I also heard that when you steal you should try to improve upon the original idea. The makers of Matrix must have missed that part of the lesson. The Matrix shamelessly steal its story line (and not too well) from Dark City (a much better movie that makes sense). The costume designer has no doubt seen Men In Black. The central man v. machine story was also done better by Stanley Kubrick in 2001: Space Odyssey. I have to admit that I liked the movie though, but only for the special effects. Finally, I want to definitively say Keanu Reeves can't act. So, watch The Matrix but leave your brain at the door."
"&quot;The Matrix&quot; is too dark, too long, too tangled and too dumb!  But kudos to Carrie-Anne Moss who was about the only bright light here.  Although the head &quot;FBI&quot; agent was hilarious, as was Keanu's kickboxing displays."
"Nearly mindless Hollywood action/kung-fu/sci-fi entertainment. Interesting premise is beaten to death by unrelenting video game mentality and special effects, clich&eacute;d ending. Go for the matinee cheap seats."
"A very long two hours.  The special effects were good, but that's about it. The same old plot used over and over again.  Girl kicks butt, guy saves girls butt, guy and girl like each other's butts."
"When the audience laughs at every line the hero utters, but it's not a comedy, that's NOT a good sign. I loved the FX, fight choreography, art direction, costumes, and the performances of Fishburne and Weaving. The film has a not-braindead plot and a couple of genuinely memorable, chilling images. But I found Reeves, the dialog, and the pacing appalling. Great action pictures deliver on all fronts: this one had me looking at my watch. A shame, really."
"Basically this is a western (most action movies are) in sci-fi land--nothing new here.  Visually the movie is a cross between Pi and 7 Monkeys.  But all the visual technology never goes beyond window dressing.  The plot is, at best, confusing.  The dialogue ranges from stupid to insulting.  This is about as far below typical film fare as their Bound was above.  Not a total loss, they do show their considerable talent at creating tension."
"This film excels at being a movie.  It is filled with images and concepts only possible in today's cinema.  I've been waiting for computer imagery to finally lend itself to films which were impossible before.  This is such a film.  However, certain elements detract.  The filmmakers obviously became very involved in the universe they created.  So much so that they tend to either delve into meaningless details or worse; Explain the mystery away.  At a point about a third of the way into the film the curiosity that kept me involved was quickly dispatched with filler dialogue.  &quot;What?&quot; I thought, &quot;How can they cripple this film so easily?&quot;.  Regardless, the action scenes are involving.  The dialogue is largely tolerable (compared to recent fare), the cinematic style is interesting, and the effects are sometimes subtle and sometimes breathtaking.  Keanu Reeves seems to have settled for a much more subtle approach here, an improvement in my mind.  Personal peeve... When did Laurence Fishburne go Michael Jackson on us? Obviously the the cinematographer did not know how to handle the exposure of dark skin.  In almost any given shot Fishburne appears to have had his ethnic heritage stolen from him."
"Oh, what the hell.... I certainly won&#x27;t argue with the obvious fact that The Matrix did contain some very fine moments of CGI excellence, but I will argue with the fact that every single character in this film was less than likable (some clearly less likable than others). And because of that painfully plain truth The Matrix only rates 5 stars.  In particular, it was The Oracle who I thought to be nothing but a big, pudding-faced phony, baking her stale cookies and cheerfully dispensing away with her worthless &#x22;kitchen-counter&#x22; prophecies and laughable &#x22;dime-store&#x22; philosophy as if it were all to be taken at face value by gullible fools, like the stubborn, thick-skulled Morpheus.  And, on top of that, no one can tell me that NYC has such an incredibly vast and spacious sewer system that a literal fleet of ships the size of the Nebuchadnezzur can actually get lost within them for days and days on end, while scouting around for who-knows-what (?)."
"I know there are a lot of people who have seen this film and even the sequels. But this is the first time I&#x27;ve paid attention to this franchise. Though it is popular, The Matrix failed to deliver good performances and great fighting scenes. The story is new in its genre and year. The Matrix was created in 1999, which is similar to 2010&#x27;s Inception, where the world is not the world itself anymore. There are two worlds, The Matrix and the actual world. The Matrix is where most people live in and the actual world is only for the ones that rebelled. As refreshingly new the plot is, the writers just had to put in some clich&#xE9;s in the film: the protagonist did not die at the end, the bad guys died, some romance, and badass action scenes. Well, I guess that&#x27;s what all movies have nowadays. But the film have so many flaws in it like the acting, it is the worse ensembled cast I&#x27;ve seen in years. The actual writing isn&#x27;t bad but the way the actors delivered the lines are just unpleasant. Another flaw is the fighting scenes. I first thought it was because they were moving too fast and that was the point. But as it progresses, the fighting scenes are just cheap! The Matrix offers a new element to its genre and has really great visual effects but failed to deliver on its performances which made the film dropped."
the matrix is a movie that has a story that is not possible. so before one sits to watch the movie. its better that they free their minds. do not think too deep. the movie has a computer based - machine based concept. the concept is not utilized to full extent. the action scenes drives the movie. the visual effects and the training scenes are top notch. so when one decides that matrix is a imaginary movie. definitely it is . so just watch the movie for action sequences and cinematography. cast wise performance neo ( keanu reeves ) is good and suitable. lawrence fishburne ( morpheus ) and carrie anne moss (trinity ) are good enough. rest all did a perfect job. final verdict: see and forget it.
"The Matrix is not for everyone. Some love it, some hate it and some even dress up as Neo and Trinity and walk out in public. I am one of those people who don&#39;t care about the Matrix and thinks its nothing special.  What is the Matrix? Well it was a turning point in CGI and a good Sci-Fi film. It is at times very funny as we watch Hugo Weaving saying&quot; Mr Anderson&quot; really slow or watching Keanu Reeves signing come here while in a fight.   This may be best Matrix but i am no fan of the Matrix. I found it to be a mess of a trilogy.  As you can tell i am not a big fan of the Matrix movies but there are good things. There are OK fights and good special effects. The story is OK also.  I don&#39;t recommend it. But there is a chance you will like it.  5/10"
"I have seen The Matrix in full. I have considered it in my head. I have now come to the conclusion that the version everybody else has been watching is different to mine, as I can see no merit in the movie whatsoever. The dull characters live in a bland, grey hued universe populated by other dull characters, fighting for a cause that I don't understand and that I don't care for. Along the way they get into supposedly 'cool' kung fu and gunfights all in slow motion. The only relief from the relentless boredom of this emotionless juggernaut is Hugo Weaving's Agent Smith, a character whose blandness is intentional and even amusing. In the case of the other characters, their blandness is unintentional and unamusing. The only people who can possibly enjoy and understand this movie in full are the Wachowski brothers."
"THE MATRIX / Starring Keanu Reeves, Laurence Fishburne and Carrie-Anne Moss / Directed by Andy and Larry Wachowski / Written by Andy and Larry Wachowski / Rated R / **  The Matrix has now garnered it's own cult of teenagers and young adults all over the world. I admit that only discovering this little movie only months before the sequel, The Matrix Reloaded was due to come out. I rented the DVD not knowing what to expect. I knew the storyline but nothing too deep other than the most basic of information. I sat through the film's 136 minute running time, watching carefully. After the movie, I took the DVD out of my player, put it in it's case and walked out the door, remembering absolutely nothing. Ouch.  The Matrix is a science fiction tale of a computer program writer called Thomas Anderson AKA Neo (Keanu Reeves), who learns from a band of rebels that the world he lives in is a digital simulation. The world he sees, the world we see is in fact a virtual reality created by an entire race of machines to keep humans under control and giving those machines energy for them to survive. After learning the truth from the mysterious man known as Morpheus (Laurence Fishburne) and leather-clad, ass-kicker Trinity (Carrie-Anne Moss), Neo is released from the virtual prison known as the Matrix and finally witnesses the real world. But there's something more to Neo than meets the eye: Is he possibly the One, the only person in all of mankind that can destroy the Matrix and free the human race? The answer? Probably.  The main source of entertainment in this movie are the fight scenes, which zip by like a six-year-old having a sugar rush. I admit that these fight scenes are spectacular, crafted with the most seamless special effects I have ever seen. There is a particularly impressive hand-to-hand fight between Keanu Reeves and Australian actor Hugo Weaving (Lord of the Rings) in a subway and even a more impressive one between Reeves and Laurence Fishburne in the first hour of the film, taking place in an old dojo. It was hard to believe that Keanu performed all of his fight scenes himself, or that he had the brains to remember the moves! Sure, pretty-looking fight scenes are abound in this film but that's where my investment in this film stopped dead.  The Matrix's fatal flaw is that there is not one likable or colorful character in all of the film's bloated 136 minutes. The only character that comes even remotely close to being likable is Carrie-Anne Moss' Trinity. All other characters are ultimately forgettable and not really worth caring about. Some characters just drove me out of my mind! I found most of the crew of the Nebachanezzar annoying and pointless. What's worse is that most of them have the worst dialogue of the whole movie. &quot;Digital pimp hard at work!&quot; Are the Wachowski's eighteen or something? I know this movie is marketed to teenagers as something &quot;cool&quot;. In fact, I'm only fifteen years old and I didn't think the movie was all that &quot;cool&quot;. Instead of &quot;cool&quot; I found it &quot;cliched&quot;, &quot;silly&quot; and &quot;lame&quot;. I admit, Keanu Reeves' character was decent and somewhat interesting considering the fact he didn't look like he could figure out what everyone is saying. You know a main character is not worthing giving a damn about when everyone around him must constantly explain things to him, often slowly. Actually, I found the whole movie to merely being an &quot;introduction&quot; to this concept. There WAS no story.  But alas, there is a saving grace and that is the new world unraveling before our very eyes, often with the most spectacular visual effects. They're not much of filmmakers, but the Wachowski's are certainly digital wizards, able to magically create dreams out of the latest of technology. The CGI used in the &quot;real world&quot; is particularly impressive, probably more impressive than most things out of that &quot;other&quot; big-budget release of 1999, called a little something like Star Wars Episode I: The Phantom Menace. But I found the Phantom Menace much more entertaining! Like Star Wars, there is never really a moment in this movie that special effects are not used. Sure, these special effects are great to look at, but a movie should not be reliant on special effects. That's why most indie films end up being some of the best movies of all time. They are about writing, directing and acting. Films like The Matrix are only made to show out the latest technology. Now make no mistake, I didn't watch this film expecting it to take home the Best Picture award from the Academy, but that's doesn't stop it from being disappointing.  Many people claim this film for being &quot;deep&quot; yet I see nothing &quot;deep&quot; about it at all. &quot;There is no spoon.&quot; Yeah, I already remember Laurence Fishburne's character blabbing about that earlier in the film for immense amounts of time. And I hear Reloaded is just one big Philosophy 101 lesson! The philosophy found in this movie I think is trying to be subtle but in the end simply bogs the film down. I commend the Wachowskis for trying to take action films to another level, but maybe that just won't ever happen. The only movie that ever actually came close to being something more was 1991's Terminator 2: Judgement Day, which happens to be a much better movie than The Matrix, action film or not. And don't give me that &quot;You just didn't understand it!&quot; crap, because I understood the whole thing perfectly and believe me, there is nothing special about it.  I think the real thing that made The Matrix loved by millions of viewers is that it glorifies computer geeks and school nerds. The real problem with me is that I'm neither of those things. I guess that's why it never touched me, or the story just never moved me. Sure the action scenes are spectacular and the special effects are great to look at, but in my opinion, special effects should not drive the story. It should be the other way around. Combine that with one-dimensional characters and uninspired dialogue, there is nothing here to entertain me. A movie can be the greatest movie of all time but if it doesn't entertain, it does nothing for me. That's exactly the definition I would give The Matrix."
"Chihiro_Sen15's Rating: 6.5 out of 10  There's much hype among a little 1999 film called &quot;The Matrix&quot; a movie which I only discovered this year, a little before the release of the much anticipated (much overhyped) sequel &quot;The Matrix Reloaded&quot;. I don't why I waited so long to see this movie. I just never got the time or just wasn't interested enough to see it. But I just kept seeing advertisements for &quot;Reloaded&quot;: All of the soda and beer ads, the posters, the extremely good-looking Carrie Anne Moss. I had to check the first one out! I finally rented it on DVD from Blockbuster, and after taking out the disc, I came to the conclusion that the &quot;Matrix&quot; was one of the most overrated movies of all time. But that never stopped it from being entertaining.  &quot;The Matrix&quot; tells of Thomas Anderson (Keanu Reeves), a computer programmer by day and a hacker by night by the name of &quot;Neo&quot;. But by having a mysterious encounter between peculiar strangers Morpheus (Lawrence Fishburne) and Trinity (Carrie-Anne Moss), Neo learns that the world is not what it seems to be. Him and all the other humans are slaves in the &quot;Matrix&quot;, a computer program deluding the humans from the &quot;real&quot; world. After being &quot;unplugged&quot;, Neo joins with Morpheus and Trinity to fight against the machine army threatening to destroy &quot;Zion&quot;, the last human city of the real world, and to free the rest of the humans from the Matrix while taking on Smith (Hugo Weaving) and the other agents.  &quot;The Matrix&quot; does have a few ideas, but Phillip K. Dick wrote better than this. The dialogue is banal and the movie is constantly explaining the whole explanation to the audience. &quot;The Matrix&quot; is a very, very simplistic premise but the film is able to expand past it's small idea into an over-wrought world laden down with special effects. All of the characters have no depth in them at all and are treated like special effects like the rest of the film! What begins as a fairly interesting plot turns into a video game with cardboard characters and fancy visuals.  Then why was I entertained? Simple: It was fun. I had a fun time. It's not the classic the desperate action junkies and video game nerds want it to be. Nor was it mind-blowing. I saw nothing here that I haven't seen in billions of stories written decades before this movie was thought of. The visuals are fun and &quot;bullet time&quot; was somewhat cool to look at, but there really was no POINT to the movie. What are we getting out of this? Nothing except minor entertainment. Should I bother with Reloaded...?"
"Listen, I did not enjoy this movie at all. Sure, I love guns and explosions in movies just as much as the next Joe Blow, but this is trash. Why does everyone love this movie? Is it the fact that it revolves around the computer world. Or maybe, some people need to escape from reality so much, that they need to watch a movie, where the only reality is in a computer. I you want a real escape from reality, watch E.T. Cuz as far as I know it, that movie did'nt have any teens shooting up schools, after it's release."
"If you thought Myst was Mysterious, you'll find what you want, and you'll rate this movie a &quot;10.&quot; But for everyone else, there's not much here to think about...or watch. I kept waiting for the plot to kick in. It never did. Special effects pretty overrated. Sorry guys."
"There's science fiction and then there's dumb.  Anyone who took any physics or biology or knows anything about computers can't be taken in by this hokey plot.  Very seldom is a plot so stupid that it detracts from special effects this good.  This was one of those times.  Even &quot;Twister&quot; seemed plausible compared to this pointless endeavor.  Next time you want to waste the time of a bunch of very creative and talented special effects people, you might try  a GOOD science fiction story."
"I have just watched &quot;The Matrix&quot;, and I was very disappointed. I had heard it was a real good movie, and it was placed as #40 at IMDb, so I had some expectations.  After watching the first half hour I could see that it wouldn't be one of my favorites. It was more likely that it would be the most disappointing movie ever, but the action in the second half of the movie was pretty good made, so it saved the movie from being a complete disaster.  The story in The Matrix was so stupid that I considered stop watching the movie, but I had to watch it all so I could rate it here on IMDb.  Normally I like movies with &quot;the chosen one&quot; like Star Wars and Lord of the Rings, but The Matrix was so stupid. The actors constantly repeated &quot;he is the one&quot;, I think it would be enough to say this three or four times.  I really don't understand how The Matrix could be in the top-250 at IMDb, but some people like movies with stupid stories if just the action is good. This movie does not deserve more than 4/10."
"Sometimes you wonder why movies are made the way they are made. The budget is as big as the yearly national product of a small country in Africa and still I, as a rather critical viewer, am not captured by the movie. Maybe amazing special effects alone are not enough for me. BTW: I think you must take production costs into account when you rate a movie."
"The special effects in &quot;The Matrix&quot; were spellbinding.  Keanu Reeves and Laurence Fishburne weren't exactly suburb actors in the film, but they weren't exactly bad either.  But I feel this movie lacks one principle that makes a great movie: great writing.  Laurence Fishburne as Morpheus walks Neo (portrayed by Keanu Reeves) through a lot of discussion of what the matrix is, in the middle of the film.  This fits into the category of 'exposition', a definite problem with script writing.  It would have been better if the character Neo would have been involved with more drama while actually figuring out what the matrix is.  In a movie like &quot;Star Wars&quot;, the characters are placed in a setting unlike our world...&quot;In a galaxy far, far away.&quot;  The action in &quot;Star Wars&quot; moves from one scene to another without the characters stopping whatever they're doing, then sitting around and explaining how the Millennium Falcon jumps to light speed or how the Death Star destroys planets...the viewer actually sees the stars race across the screen as the Millennium Falcon gets away from the Empire fighters, and see how Princess Lea painfully watches her own planet get destroyed.  In &quot;The Matrix&quot;, besides the long scene that gets bogged down by exposition, there isn't much to character development.  If you take away all the amazing special effects, there wasn't that much in the script to hold the characters together.  I am bothered how this movie is considered a &quot;thinking man's sci-fi thriller&quot;.  After all I just said, I really didn't feel this movie lived up to that promise."
"I,for one,dont see whats all the hype about this film.As i watched it,i had hard time not to fall asleep and also not to get all dizzy from the special effects.This movie is nothing but a bunch of effects tangled in an unconvincing and unoriginal story.Reeves does ok job,so does Fishbourne,but i have a hard time accepting Carrie Anne Moss as a serious actress.You just cant be in &quot;Models inc.&quot; and then do serious stuff.Well,you can but then dont expect you are gonna have an easy job convincing everyone that you can do well in a serious role.  5 out of 10 is my rating"
"Good concept, crap movie! As I watched this, I found myself getting more and more annoyed, everybody in the cinema was in awe of the SFX and not seeing the bigger picture, that is that this film is just another patriotic 'America is better than the rest and everyone should love us' grade D movie. The situation may be different, but the ideology of it is the same. Yeah the SFX are amazing, but the acting sux as does the storyline. i give it 3/10"
"I went to the cinema expecting to see a spectacular movie, filled with stunning special effects and (at least) a decent plot and I got a boring tale about a certain Neo, where God only knows why he must be a hacker (he could well have been a pony express clerk or a plumber as far as the the story is concerned). The dialogues are slow paced, mostly idiotic, and the performance of Reeves is said to be one of his best just because he remains quiet most of the time. In the end I don't understand what the hype around it is all about. Much ado for nothing."
"What is &quot;The Matrix&quot;?  Lemme tell ya: &quot;The Matrix&quot; is a vast computer network designed to kick butt and take names...oh, and to imprison all humanity - almost forgot that.  Did I mention what Keanu Reeves has to do with any of this?  No?  We'll get to him later, then.  Well, conspiracy theorists, here's your ultimate sci-fi flick.  Seems we're all living a virtual reality lie and that this is really the future and we're all slaves to the Pentium gods.  In fact, the only thing that stands between us and total oblivion are a pack of rebel freedom fighters and a lone man who will one day destroy the evil....  Hmmm, does that sound familiar to anyone else?  DUH!  &quot;The Matrix&quot; cobbles together a story-line from not only &quot;Star Wars&quot; but also &quot;Alice in Wonderland&quot;, &quot;The Wizard of Oz&quot;, Zen philosophy, Kung-Fu chop-socky flicks, your choice of shoot-em-ups and one of any Oliver Stone movies where we're all living in a daze and there's sinister plots working to undermine our lives and make us all live a live (or in this case, a &quot;techno-lie&quot;).  Reeves is Neo, the &quot;Chosen One&quot; as he is sometimes called and must be brought from the &quot;real world&quot; to help an underground resistance in a desolate world of the &quot;future&quot; to train, re-learn and re-think himself in order to defeat the bad guys, save the good guys and (GASP!) find true love in the form of Trinity (Moss).  Okay, plot mechanics aside, this is a movie you'll only be interested in for the FX and let me tell you, there are some good ones here.  You know those Gap commercials where people jump, freeze in mid-air then the camera rotates around them 180 degrees until they land?  That's what you'll see here, and those scenes are well-done.  In fact, a lot of the action here is invigorating and, truth be told, exciting.  BUT, the Wachowski brothers tell a thin plot line that is just an excuse for their speical FX loop. And in it are some talented actors trying to stand out from the swirling and swooping scenery about them.  Of the group, Fishburne does best as Morpheus, the Obi-Wan to Reeves' Luke Skywalker. Fishburne teaches, philosophizes and drop-kicks with the best of them and is one of the more memorable characters in modern day film-making.  Reeves is pretty much ineffectual and (understandingly) bewildered by the goings-on, so doesn't have much of a chance to do any acting.  Moss plays tough all the way through (even when kissing Reeves!) and Pantoliano seems to be here as a token gesture, since he was in the Wachowski's &quot;Bound&quot;.  The bad guys, though, are pretty effective, wearing dark glasses, neat business suits and locked jaws.  The main baddie, Agent Smith (Weaving), does most of the talking and threatening and suggests what Darth Vader would have been like in business wear.  In the end, though, once all is said and done, you'll remember FX and gunfire and fight scenes and, maybe, think twice about touching a mirror again.  But not much else.  But if all you want is cool FX, look no further.  Five stars for &quot;The Matrix&quot;, in terms of FX and story.  There are supposed to be sequels coming out for this movie later on.  I'll bet Oliver Stone will be first in line."
"The Matrix would have been a decent film had it not been for the recurring, overdone messiah theme. To me, it lost all believability when Neo comes back to life after being kissed. An otherwise very original storyline was ruined by a predictable ending and a theme that's been done ad nauseum. I think I'll pass on part 2 and 3."
"Well I went to the cinema to see The Matrix. Everybody had told me that it was one of the best movies they had seen. Well it has some great special f/x but nothing more, The acting is terible and the plot has more holes than a bowl of Cherrios. Soo if you wana see a good movie with f/x see Jurassic Park.  2/4 Stars  Tank you Very Much"
"WOW! Big superstars! AMAZING special effects! Guns! Romance! WHAT a great film! A really original plot too!  I am of course, lying.  The Matrix really wasn't all that great. The special effects, while being pretty good as they were, were: A) first seen in Gap adverts B) just there for the sake of it, and they really added nothing.  As for the plot, I could see about three films from which it was seemingly stolen, the far superior Dark City on particular.  The pathetic attempt at romance was disastrously tacked on at the end, for no reason, and Reeves's performance wasn't really that great.  Just another big bad Hollywood nothing. Shame."
"Nearly unwatchable clap-trap about &quot;common man&quot; Reeves caught up in secret struggle between computer-enhanced good and bad guys.  The special effects are great, but c'mon, there should be a coherent or compelling plot somewhere.  It's ridiculous that this movie is voted (at this writing) as the 30th best film of all time;  I must have seen some other movie coincidentally called The Matrix."
"I saw this film after hearing much hoopla and hype surrounding it's special effects. Always a fan of good Sci-Fi and well done special effects as well as a coherent plot and strong characters, I laid down my $. My first comment is that the special effects were outstanding. Extremly well done and (as opposed to some other films) an intricate part of the story. What was lacking was a coherent plot and strong characters. I was dissapointed that more explanation of the &quot;Matrix&quot; and it's reason for being were not explained in more detail. The movie is very dark and depressing. The scenes of Neo in some type of fetal-hybernation state with the tubes coming out of him were downright disturbing. Most of the actors give pretty standard performances and as usual, Keanu Reeves continues to underwhelm me with his &quot;Whoa&quot; style of acting. Quite frankly, I left the theater feeling uneasy and eager to see a bird, a green tree, people laughing, anything that would erase the depressing state the film put me in. Other films have moved me emotionally (Saving Private Ryan was gut wrenching to watch) but most always seem to end on a positive note or at least have me contemplating something positive. The Matrix had me grasping for the Zoloft. Action/Sci-Fi films need to get beyond their attempt at &quot;eye-candy&quot; entertainment and start providing something more substantial to leave us with. Thank goodness, George Lucas figured this out over 20 years ago with Star Wars."
"The move was entertaining... that's about it. I expected bad and (God I hate to use this word, the word that is the staple of any critic, but in this case its so accurate) 'uninspired' acting by Keanu Reeves, and got it.  &quot;Woah&quot; couldn't save this movie but obviously special effects did. Hate to break the news to you but Matrix's story line is entertaining but hardly original.  (I'd give an example but it might spoil the plot?) But, take any of the great SCI-FI movies of the 50's most of em have the exact same plot but some still stand out. The acting was dull, it really was, Larry Fishburne tried, VERY hard to make it interesting but it was just so pitiful.  A good actor like Larry F looked SO out of place in this thing. Entertaining though? Sure, very. The action sequences (though I still think there were too few of them) are some of the best I've ever seen.  The CGI effects were outstanding as well. Sometimes that's all you need in a movie.   Take, say, Predator.  Fun movie, I loved it, not a mecca of acting either, but I liked it better cause it set out what it was supposed to do, better than the Matrix. Is it better than Terminator? or T2? No. I don't think so. Actually I can't quite decide, was there not enough action to offset the dialogue? or was there enough action and the dialogue just slowed the movie down too much to make it appear that way?  It could go either way I suppose. With a better actor, and dialogue that didn't slow the movie down as if it had stepped in molasses, it could've blown most any other action movie dead out of the water.  I can't say enough how it would kill me that each time I'd see some of the most complex, well paced, outstanding action sequences (the hotel lobby for one being one of the greatest in a movie ever) to be shot to hell by bad acting in and dull dialogue. The action overshadows that enough though to make this movie worthy to watch at least once, that and the DVD kicks A@@ too."
"A nice premise is ruined by a plot that never settles down and decides what it is going to be.  The first 1/2 of the movie builds nicely, but the last 1/2 is just mindless action with no direction.  The phony fight scenes were out of a Mortal Combat video game.  If karate was so essential to the movie they should've gotten Jackie Chan to do it."
"Sorry, I had to break up the monotony of review after review that essentially all read like this: &quot;The Matrix is AWESOME!&quot;  I'm as much of a Keanu Reeves fan as the next girl... I even think that he did a decent job in Much Ado About Nothing, but I was very disappointed in his performance in this movie.  His acting was so wooden that I rarely sensed any well-conveyed emotion.  Also, what was up with the writing?  I remember when I first saw the trailer for this movie, I laughed for weeks over the fact that the shot of a supposedly amazed Keanu saying &quot;whoa&quot; in a breathy voice was the highlight of the 30 second advertisement.  There were several points during the ridiculously absurd and unbelievable movie that caused both my date and me to guffaw when we saw it on the big screen.  One thing I do have to say in the Matrix's favor is that it looked pretty damn good (this description does include Keanu, by the way, who looks excellent in the wardrobe they gave him).  Lately a lot of bad computer generated effects have made their way into movies, but this one was nearly visually perfect.  Some of the scenes involving the twisting of reality were pretty amazing.  If only the actors could have been as convincing as the effects... and if only the plot they had to support wasn't so silly, I might feel differently about this film."
"Every year there seems to be at least one movie that has theater-goers buzzing, but which ends up being much ado about nothing. Here's 1999's: The Matrix.  Whether it's the hokey idea of robots using humans as batteries rather than harvesting power chemically or geochemically, the dissolution of the trying-to-be-hip science fiction movie plot into a typical action/shoot-'em-up vehicle, or the bedamned Hollywood ending, there's much to annoy the serious film-viewer in The Matrix. Its basic plot (human discovers he's in a faked, alien-generated reality/ discovers he has super-powers to fight aliens) was used in 1998's Dark City, a more stylish film that also suffers from a Hollywood-esque ending. Invest your $7, $8, or $9 in Duracell stock."
"OK, I'm probably one of the very few people that found this film incredibly boring, tedious and predictable.  It felt like I was watching Men In Black V. Terminator 2.  I kept expecting Tommy Lee Jones or Will Smith to turn up any minute.  The concept of bad(?) guys wearing dark suits and sunglasses and trying to hide the truth from us mortals has been done before in MIB.  The concept of computers taking over the world in the future and one person being the saviour was done before in Terminator 2.  It was predictable that Mr Keanu Reeves was the chosen one, yet he would not realise this fate until there had to be a near death scene where the audience were all to believe he was dead, until he realised he was him - the chosen one.  There was lots of mush in there about if you know then it will happen, oh please fetch me the sick bucket.  The special effects are OK, not much to shout home about, and definitely did not add anything to the film."
"I didn't expect to see a hyper-violent wannabe-Neuromancer kung fu fest that mixes the worst of scifi and fantasy with ideas cribbed from William Gibson and Philip Dick... but that's what it is. It's like a rehash _The Three Stigmata of Palmer Eldritch_ as written by a cloned Gibson gone mad with Hong Kong fight movies and superficial Hollywood scifi films.  This is a film for people who like to see their heroes walk in the front door and mow down all the evil guys with a huge machine gun to a blaring techno soundtrack.  _The Matrix_ is all show, eye candy, no brain. Neat effects, no content. It has the intellectual sophistication of a video game, senselessly throwing out &quot;deep&quot; stuff like &quot;What is real?&quot; like the filmmakers even cared. Such questions only serve as an excuse to show all sorts of neat special effects and stunts.  _The Matrix_ will appeal to a lot of little (mentally as well as physically) boys, and the huge number of tactically placed gratuitous Keanu shots will likely please the girls as well. This is a film that is presumptuous enough to begin by asking &quot;What is real?&quot; and end with a martial-arts fight between Good (as represented by Keanu as the originally named &quot;The One&quot;) and Evil (as represented by three guys dressed in black). Spaceship-sized plot holes abound. Good acting doesn't save a horribly clich&eacute;d script ridden by stereotypes and comic reliefs that we've all seen before.  _The Matrix_ reminded of three films: _Event Horizon_, an exercise in morbidity and stupidity (over which _The Matrix_ towers, not that it says much), _Dark City_ (which has similar problems but manages to be stimulate the intellect at least part of the time, the rest of which it makes up for with sheer style; at least it offered a very intriguing premise, one that in turn reminded me a lot of Brian Aldiss' sublime novel _Non-Stop_), and David Cronenberg's _Videodrome_ (one of the most daring and challenging, and at the same time visually overpowering, depictions of alternative realities put on screen so far).  I look forward to, at some point in the future, we'll get an authentic science fiction film that doesn't believe in stupid audiences, hackneyed cliches, or box-office success, and dares to ask important questions and then deal with them. But that's wishful thinking, I guess. Outright science fiction, as it were."
"This movie SUCKED, big time. Yes, the special effects were sensational. Yes, the story was mildly interesting (What there was of it). But as Independance Day famously proved, you need more than that to make a good movie; but not, apparently, to sell one. Besides the hugely cliched and excruciating dialogue, Keanu Reeves continued his tradition of lending no personality whatsoever to his character, much as the rest of the 'actors' in this terrible, terrible film. The only chap with even a small measure of integrity and personality was the great Laurence Fishburne, and he certainly was far from at his best. I didn't care one jot who lived or died when I was watching this movie, although I must admit it was rather satisfying when the infuriatingly smug agent was finally dispatched. Anyone who genuinely liked The Matrix is nothing more than a conveyor belt mass-production social drone who'll swallow any old hype and sacrifice any amount of dignity for the sake of a few nice effects. Just a normal Keanu Reeves film, then."
"The film has great special effects and fight sequences, but with characters you don't really care about."
"Okay, okay, so the movie was mildly entertaining.  But #20 on the top 250 films of all time?  You have got to be kidding me.  If this is where the movie industry is going, I think we should all be deeply saddened.  A special effects-driven, mindless action movie with a bad script...  Hey, did Jim Cameron do this film??"
"The Matrix is not a bad film, it keeps you involved because of the slow uncovering of the complex and bizarre plot, the twist and turns as the movie unfolds, Agent Smith as the perfect baddie and of course the pretty wild action sequences. The atmosphere is suitably dark and the special effects are excellent. All good enough for a fine evening of movie entertainment, right?   Unfortunately there are some rather big problems as well, and they really bug me the morning after watching the film. Truth is, I am really struggling with the plot. I am quite a fan of science-fiction so that in itself is not what bothers me. I don't even mind the questionable assumption that human bodies can be harvested for power generation without having to input more energy than they produce. No, the real doubt I have is simply: why this Matrix? Why do the machines even bother to go to such lengths as this incredibly complicated computer programme that makes humans think they have an actual life? Why not just let them rot in their pods and good luck to them? What do the machines get out of it? Surely it costs vast amounts of energy to keep this programme running and hook up all the humans to it? Why do they do it? What's the point?   Also, why do Special Agents have any limitations at all? If they are computer programs, and the world they operate in is a computer programme too, why are they not simply all-powerful and invulnerable to bullets and other attacks? A computer programme has no physical limitations - anybody with a games console knows this. Why bother shooting at a virtual body with virtual bullets?   I realise these are fundamentals required for the plot to work, but I find the problems a bit too glaring to overlook. When you think about it, this film is no more than an excuse for the (in themselves quite good) special effects. Therefore, in the cool light of day I can't give this film more than 4 stars."
"To be honest, I'd expected this be some stupid flick. A bunch of my friends had seen The Matrix and most of them didn't really like it. I thought they'd be right, since most of the time they have the same taste as me (or they eventually will get the same taste as me, as for Star Wars, which they didn't really like at all at first, but now they do ^_^) so I thought this movie would be dull and boring.  I was positively surprised. The story is actually really good, and so is the acting. I'm not a fan of Keanu Reeves, but he was great as Neo. Same for Carrie-Anne Moss and Laurence Fishburne. The much-talked-about special effects are really great as well.  There were some flaws though, in my humble opinion. Much of the dialogues were just too clich&eacute;, as were some of the characters (Cypher, Tank). Sometimes the movie got a little bit dull (at about half of the movie) but towards the ending it got better again. Still, as I said, not bad at all.  8/10"
"Against the background of The Thirteenth Floor and Existenz the film seems childish. Its creators focus on tricks such as running on the vertical surfaces, swallowing bullets and firing every kind of weapons the film crew could think of. It's a strange thing but though the show is breathtaking while one is watching it the viewer is unable to tell what it is all about a few minutes after the film has ended. The idea (if there is one) is not new. There is a vague entity enslaving our long-suffering planet instead of the good old ET invaders, gallant but few rebels, to be continued (certainly!). The film lacks depth. One can see it once in a good movie theatre but that's all for it."
"Lawrence Fishburne mouths unintelligible, cryptic proverbs ... Keanu Reeves gapes back blankly, slackjawed.  Bang, zoom ... the morphing computers, sensing a total absence of continuity, kick in.  Stuff gets blowed up REAL good.  Then it's back to the, uh, story.  More tightlipped pronunciations through clenched teeth, and HOO! HAH! Martial arts! Pow! Thud! Who won? Who knows? There's nary a mark, or even a hair out of place.  Whoops, listen: somebody's got more deep thoughts. &quot;There is no spoon.&quot; Ah, the audience is awaiting The Truth behind that one. Can you handle The Truth? Well, accepting the award for The Truth, here she comes: The Oracle! A chain-smoking, cookie-baking Sassy Mama! &quot;Have ... a COOKIE, Nio!&quot;  I mean, how can it miss?  This is High Concept, this is Today, this is Now, short-attention-span Y2K box office boffo!  We're talking Sequel City here!   I rooted for Agent Smith (Hugo Weaving, the one actor who acted in this flash-trash celluloid sinkhole) and his Brown Suits. Especially after he compared the principal characters to a virus which consumes and then moves on.  The Robo-Man makes a point.  Hey! Wait a minute ... maybe there really IS no spoon!  Maybe that's the POINT!  There isn't one of those, either!    A point, I mean."
"I fit the demographics on this one.  I'm 30, a gamer, programmer, run a domain in my off time, etc. etc.  I also love special effects, good action movies and Sci-Fi.  I was really looking forward to this movie.  The Special Effects were unbelievable. Overdone, but who cared?!!  It deserved every Oscar in visual effects and then some.  Besides that:  This was one of the worst movies I've ever seen.  I have seen many movies I don't like, this is the first I REALLY hate.  The plot had so many loopholes I felt the screenplay was like a quilt with plot(stitches) in between the special effects(panels).  It reminded me of &quot;The Abyss&quot;, but at least in &quot;The Abyss&quot; the audience took it for what it was worth - a movie made up of a half edited plot and poor acting while moving forward in the world of special effects.  &quot;The Matrix&quot;- people actually liked this!  Figuring I missed something I've asked people who love this movie what it was about, and  they couldn't agree on the basics! So after research my comments are...  Kill me, but the acting was sub-standard, the plot confusing without purpose, and a bunch of  characters who all looked like they walked out of &quot; Scream&quot;   didn't help at all. This is excluding Fishburne who speaks like the Kung Fu master in The Karate Kid.  The screenplay was full of cryptic phrases like &quot;the matrix has no meaning...&quot; and &quot;the matrix cannot tell you who you are&quot; that  could have been told in an easier way without any loss of ambiance.  Instead, I felt that I needed to bring my Captain America decryption ring.  The lack of the actors' performances made it even harder to figure out the meaning of what was being said.  This movie speaks like a poor novel reads-a lot of words saying what a few could have said better. Big words do not a good movie make. In the end you feel both tired and empty.  At least the characters could have made me care."
"Go ahead and crucify me everyone, but I found this movie unbearably, loud, violent, unimaginative (how many morphs and person splits do I have to look at), and very boring. Unlike movies like Dark City and The Mummy which used very clever and enjoyable special effects in a relatively restrained fashion to serve a real story, with atmosphere, good acting and writing, this had people I could care less about, a story maybe I was too dumb to get, or maybe I had too much of a headache to be able to try. Without the aid of a  computer, this movie would have nothing.   Guess I am an old fogie at 35, this is nothing but a &quot;.dot com&quot; movie that I fear will be the wave of the future. I'm glad I will be dead by the time it becomes the norm."
"I didn't go to see this film because Keanu Reeves was in it,so I figured how good could it be? But then i started hearing what a good film it was,what great sci-fi,what great special effects. I still have flashbacks of Johnnie Mnemonic so I waited for the video. When I tried to rent it the day it was released both video stores I go to were out of it.I rented it three days later-thinking I must be wrong,this must be a good if not great sci fi movie.   I might have been a little more impressed with the special effects if they had not shown them before the movie started.The video actually shows how some of them were created.Bummer-I like to be surprised. But even if I had not seen this preview I would have still thought this was a so-so- movie. Keanu Reeves-what can I say--he looked good in this movie.He has better cheekbones than 90% of the models that strut their stuff down the runway-but God love him--he can't act worth squat!  Anybody who thinks this is another Blade Runner,or Dark City,forget about it. This could have been a contender,but it falls short in so many ways. The premise of the story is fascinating-people living in a dream universe created by computer,while in reality they are created and used as a source of energy to power the computers. This concept was not very fully explored and I found Morpheus&quot;s (Lawrence Fishburne the leader of the rebels who knows the truth)explaination of the rules of the Matrix flawed. Instead a deep thought provoking movie,the premise demands-what we get is a shoot-em-up,and a Hollywood ending.  This movie was mildly entertaining,in spite of Keanu Reeves,but its not great sci-fi. I gave it a 4."
"I don't understand why so many people liked the movie. The worst thing about this movie is the plot. Oooh, the entire world is a VR simulation, how original! Did they come up with it all by themselves? I found the movie to be very boring. Most of the action bits were ok, but between them we got lots of idiotic dialogue that was suppose to be clever. The movie should have been more like T2, with much more action, because the drama and subplots were just sad. And I also must say that the action scenes didn't brake any new ground. We've seen it all before.  I know I'm endangering my life here, but I think Godzilla is a better movie.  And what with the Bible-babble? &quot;What is the answer?&quot; - &quot;What is the question?&quot;... Oooh, I'm impressed! Not."
Interesting idea and excellent special effects.  But I found the movie somewhat confusing and too long.  It took me a while to figure out what was going on..then it dragged a bit...then finally caught my interest in the last 45 minutes.  Good but not great.  Wait for the video.
"I honestly don't know why this movie is touted so much as being the ultimate scifi flick or whatever other tags it's gotten over the past 3 years.  The story was hard to wrap my mind around, but that's perhaps because the explanation for The Matrix itself was done in the middle of the film in the cheesiest manner possible: sitting the hero down and explaining it to him.  My mind just blanked it out.  Not only is this device as old as time, but it doesn't involve the audience at all.  It's like we're just listening in.  It would have been better for Neo to actually experience it firsthand and find out exactly what the reality is around him and how it came to be.  I found the FX to be pretty cheesy as well.  I felt like I was watching someone play a video game rather than watching a movie.  The whole concept of the story may be &quot;deep&quot; for the latest generation (I'm one step ahead of you folks), but it sounded like contrived dreck to me. 2/10 cuz Keanu's pretty cute, but cuteness does not a good movie make."
"I tried to like &quot;The Matrix&quot;, I really did. The commercials looked really cool with all the action shots and slow motion effects and I knew that I just had to see it. When did I give up on it? About halfway through the movie, (after the other 4 people I went to the theatre with had long since began laughing out loud at this silly, absurd, and massively boring film), Keanu goes to the apartment where the great oracle (or whatever) was baking cookies and retarded kids were bending spoons with their minds. That's when I stared laughing too. I'm sorry but my friends were right. This film sucked. Sure there were a couple of sorta cool action scenes but you had to sit through the insanely dull hour and a half of Lawrence Fishburn explaining EVERYTHING that happens in the film before these scenes even appeared. And the movie &quot;Blade&quot; had come out around the same time and was a MUCH better surreal action film. As for the silly karate scenes (or kung fu or Judo or whatever), they were no big deal. I mean, did you really think that Keanu was gonna be the next Bruce Lee? Do yourself a favor and rent (or better yet, Buy) the Jet Li &quot;Fong Sai Yuk&quot; movies. As for all the psychological babble about what world is real and what world isn't, it only added to the chaotic mess that was called a script for this waste of celluloid. Some say &quot;Battlefield Earth&quot; was a horrendous goofy mess. Well, it was, but no where near as bad as this. :)"
"I would be inclined to agree with the people that claim that The Matrix is unique, but probably not for the same reasons. In the beginning of the movie, I was on the edge of my seat, even Keanu Reeves' terrible acting couldn't upset me. I thought that the emerging storyline was one of the best I had seen. That feeling lasted untill the now legendary fight scene in the imaginary dojo. After this point the movie takes a huge step away from the style and course they laid out in the beginning. It got worse and worse as the movie wore on, and I seriously considered stopping the movie. I hadn't been as disappointed since Jurassic Park. If the moviemakers had just remembered to keep up the the innovative and awesome plotline, and not let it degenerate into one special effect after another, it could have been one of the greatest movies of our time. If you like to see a movie with excellent special effects, camera and lighting and action, this is clearly the movie for you. If you on the other hand demand that a movie has a complete and thorough plotline and story, just see the first half hour (or 45 minutes, I can't remember). My personal evaluation: 2/10"
"I cannot believe such an abysmal film has already reached #39 in the IMDB poll of the 100 Greatest Movies of all time. It beat the likes of Taxi Driver and Star Wars VI- Return of the Jedi. However, this is one of those films that leave you with a longing feeling in waiting for the sequel, however bad (or quite possibly good) it may be. I wouldn't suggest this film if you are into sci-fi and you haven't yet seen it. It is the type of film adolescent teenagers adore yet they haven't yet grasped the full meaning of it. Personally, and overall, I believe this film (the same way Blade Runner was back in the 80s) is extremely overrated."
"While the individual pieces of this movie were well constructed, they weren't particularly well assembled.  The Matrix tried to be a deep, philosophical work, a techno-thriller and a Hong Kong action movie all in one.  The blend just didn't work for me.  And the whole &quot;hovercraft&quot; flying around the undercity portion was completely gratuitous."
"I'm probably going to get lynched for saying this but...  *hides and whispers* It's really not THAT good.  It is an entertaining film. It is very good for passing a couple of hours and for dissecting with friends afterwards. It is a film that was made for video nights for that purpose. I'm not saying I don't like it, I do. But I do not think it is a masterpiece. I do not find the secrets of the universe contained herein - but that is probably because I am not a conspiracy theorist and hence that level of the film is just daft to me. Indeed I think it would have been a lot better had they just made a good old fashioned adventure story with a cyber twist rather than making it a theological debate.  At a technical level it is absolutely amazing and that is the key to the success of the film. If it did not have the technical stunts and gimmickery then the reaction to it would be a lot more muted and probably more realistic. It is no accident that the people I know who have praised it most highly are cyberpunk fans! Other friends have been a lot cooler about it.  On the other hand it does have Keanu in leather and for that I can forgive much!"
"Terrific special effects, very noisy, no story, less wit, sophomoric (high school sophomore) philosophy/theology. And what a shame our heroes couldn't use their spectacular technology to, say, synthesize a nice cold bottle of Moet champagne and extrude some Baccarat crystal to drink it from, instead of gruel in tin plates."
"Alright. It has amazing digital effects. It's one of the most &quot;styled&quot; movies I've ever seen. But computer effects and sets don't make a good film. Agree? =) The action sequences are so exaggerated and the fight scenes look so terribly ridiculous, all you can do is laugh about them. And the story is a typical hollow 90's collage of old science fiction movies. Other examples: &quot;Alien: Resurrection&quot;, &quot;Event Horizon&quot;, &quot;Sphere&quot;. I say it's a big load of crap. Believe me! 4 shtarz."
"Calling &quot;The Matrix&quot; a science fiction movie is a massive abuse of the English language. Science fiction presumes a basis in an existing or projected law of science. At least this is the principle which gives substance to the wildest speculations of masters such as Arthur C Clarke (who has a first class physics degree). This film is better categorized as a science fantasy, i.e. one where  the authors use the pretence of science as a fig leaf to disguise the total inanity and incoherence of their project. Even fairy tales work within their own framework of law which gives tension and excitement to the surreal adventures. In &quot;The Matrix&quot; laws are not even made up as they go along, as that would impede the next stream-of-consciousness stunt. It makes a great special effect if a character leaps tall buildings at  a single bound or recoils from a road surface after falling from a 500 foot building. Unfortunately it also removes any possibility of the audience taking him to be even a far-fetched human character, and hence destroys any possibility of genuine thrills. These creatures can survive being run over by a subway train and even death itself. Hence the most risible Lazarus scene since &quot;ET&quot; -  Keanu is revived from the tomb by the love of a good woman.  You can make tennis easier to play by removing the net and rubbing out the lines; unfortunately you thereby destroy the game.  Similarly The Matrix fails to exist as any sort of half-coherent movie if you want a movie to consist of more than a string of sensational images.  Unlike AC Clarke's work, this screenplay fails to betray even a high school awareness of science in &quot;explaining&quot; its universe, the war between machines and humans, or the rationale for the machines sucking the life force of humans - not to mention the hokey insertion of an old style soothsayer into this &quot;scientific&quot; farago.  I give it 2 out 10 - one for sheer chutzpah in raising $60 million on the basis of such a ludicrous script and 1 for set design and special effects combined."
"I was not as impressed with this movie as i expected i would be.  i voted this movie a &quot;4&quot;  and the reason it got that and not a lower number was because i respect the special effects used in this film.  As far as the story and acting goes, it was on the right path, but far from perfect.  The ideas were there, but the execution was a little off.  If you're a fan of the sci-fi movies and love to see special effects, then i recommend that view this movie in the theaters, but if you're not really interested in these kinds of movies, then wait and save your money for when it comes out on video."
"There are few words that describe &quot;The Matrix,&quot; but derivative, loud, painful, and disappointing would be a good start. From a plot straight out of a Dick or Gibson novel, to the agony of watching Laurence Fishburne recite pages of truly awful exposition, this is a film that tries really hard, but often misses the mark. To be fair, the film is aiming high and the middle third works really well. The sets, costumes and effects are terrific and the stunts and fight scenes are pretty wild. There are also some nice metaphors playing out, and there is a serious parable being told here. The dialogue during the middle is also sharp and witty, and makes me wonder who wrote the rest of it, particularly all the scenes where Fishburne and Keanu Reeves play Obi Wan and Luke Skywalker. (&quot;The matrix surrounds us, it penetrates us....&quot; And I thought the next Star Wars movie wasn't coming out until May.) The film can't decide if it wants to be Aliens, Johnny Mnemonic, a Borg episode, a John Woo film, or a Gap ad, so it borrows lots from all of them and ends up being too little of each. Like a lot of sf films lately, there was a really good movie in here struggling to get out. But it never makes it."
"I have never fallen asleep at the cinema, but The Matrix is the closest I've ever come to doing so.  Quite frankly, the first hour of this film is the most boring hour of film ever.  Keanu Reeves cannot act, neither can Laurence Fishburne, Carrie Ann Moss doesn't do much better.  The whole thing is too dark, and let's be honest: If you've seen the trailer, you don't need to see the film, as it shows you all the special effects there anyway.  I've been more disappointed by other films, but I fail to see how this uninspiring and badly acted mess is hailed so much by fans.  Any old fool can string together a series of special effects, the trick is to link them with a good story and enjoyable characters.  The Matrix does neither.  I'll admit it picks up a bit in the second half, but I was so completely and utterly appalled by the first hour, no amount of bullet time, however impressive, can save this film.  My Rating: 4/10"
"Childish fantasy unrelieved by decent acting or directing, with a script which could not have passed muster in a first-year writing class, marred by special effects which range from silly and overblown to silly, overblown, and pointless.  This one is not for adults, or for anyone with more than three working brain cells."
"Why does everyone think this movie is a masterpiece?  What differentiates it from your typical, run of the mill, enjoyable action movie?  Nothing, except maybe that horridness that is Keanu Reeves....  The action sequences are pretty nice, I'll give you that. But if you want to watch really good action sequences go rent some old-school chinese movies.  Or even new ones.  Those have the coolest fight scenes imaginable. And the special affects, they were nice, oo, aah...  But all they were was eye-candy.  They were not the kind of special affects that are so good you don't notice them.  Those are the best kind of effects, they mesh with the movie so well that they don't distract from the plot, of course The Matrix doesn't really have a plot. The movie tries to be Cyberpunk, it's based on the novel by William Gibson who is a fantastic writer, so I have to assume that the novel is good.  But this movie tries to sort of ask about virtual reality and &quot;where are we headed?&quot; and so forth, but it does it so poorly where so many others have done well.  Try reading (that's right, _reading_ Gasp!) Otherland, or Neuromancer, or the Diamond Age or Snow Crash or any of the great cyberpunk novels if you want to know what this movie should have been. Or even some movies, like eXistenZ which is not really as like the Matrix as some people would have you believe.  Anyway, that's my two cents."
"The whole premise of THE MATRIX is flawed.  The machines are using humans as a power source - WHAT?  Yes, humans, and all animals, radiate heat, but they never radiate more energy than they consume.  Any physicist will tell you that it will take more energy to produce food and transport it to the humans than will ever be gotten from the humans.  The humans are an energy sink. It doesn't matter how high-tech the machines supposedly are.  You can't overcome the laws of thermodynamics."
Let's face it folks take away all the fancy shmancy special effects and what are you left with? An average at best action movie. I never bothered to watch the sequels as they looked like crap from the previews and with this one still in my memory I decided there was nowhere to go but down.
"This movie is a love it or hate it type of movie. Not because of how original it is but because, once you see how bad it is and don't like it you begin to dislike it even more after seeing how overrated this is. The acting is below average, the story isn't all that great, the special effects are good but arnt original. For instance most people think this film created *bullet-time* but it was used in many films before this was even written including Blade. I also didn't like Blade, but its more original than this. Sci-fi movies were crappy for about five years after the release of this and are just now recovering. Maybe my 2/10 is a little underrated. I think it probably deserves at least a 4/10."
"The Matrix took everybody by surprise back in 1999 but after the initial euphoria there was very little left to say about this movie which is, I believe, way over-rated. True, the special effects had a new look but that's pretty much all there is to it. Now those SFX are clich&eacute; and close to ridiculous. Look at Terminator II, now over twelve years old, the SFX are still ahead of today's standards.  The story is basically a cross-over between the Terminator plot (also Blade Runner and a lot more sci-fi movies with the mankind overrun by machine and artificial intelligence idea) and the Dark City setting and ambiance (trench coats, an artificial city). This lack of originality is why, in my humble opinion, the movie's sequels didn't do as well. The acting is OK but far from good and the directing is the same as most 'hollywoodian' movies from the last ten years (IE lacking personal style. Seriously, what's the difference between a Wachowski bros. flick and a Roland Emmerich one?).  I've tried to watch it again on several occasions but usually I end up fast forwarding to the main action scene and then turning the movie off and then I get the feeling that that scene resumes the entire movie; a lot of noise about nothing."
"&quot;The Matrix&quot; is a decent and entertaining movie that is only viewed as something more than that by those who haven't seen better.  The story borrows heavily from other films and tries real hard to convince it is more than your average sci-fi/action movie.  It's not.  Keanu Reeves' acting is better here than in anything he has done before or since, but that's not saying much.  He does not make a good leading man and is easily eclipsed by the supporting cast (mainly Laurence Fishburne).  My suggestion is if you want to see The Matrix then see it and enjoy it, but then go out and see far superior movies like &quot;12 Monkeys&quot; or even the &quot;The Cell&quot;."
"After watching a movie which some call &quot;The best sci-fi film of the Millennium&quot; I had this serious and uncontrollable urge to go in depth and examine it to the last piece. You can ask me &quot;Why can't you just seat back and receive pleasure?&quot; I can. But not when it comes to movie which is called cult.  The special effects were good. But the only reason they were made is to create a show. Check out the eXistenZ - I don't think there were any computer animated effects at all, but you get a full feeling of another reality.  What's really bad is a plot of the film. This is supposed to be a movie were the Good Guys are fighting the Bad Matrix. But what Matrix is bad is questionable. It takes away people's freedom to control their lives but allows them to live in a bright sunny world, when the real world is dark ruins, ugly closing and food that looks and tastes like plastic. Some people could say that the Matrix is doing a good deed.  Not to mention that using a people's bodies as a batteries is not very effective, you have to feed them and that's a real waste of energy.  Absolutely unnecessary thing in this film is a Kung Fu. If you can bend spoons and duck bullets with the power of your mind, you don't need any martial arts. It was made only to put some action into film.  And the worst thing is a prophecy about the &quot;Chosen-One&quot;. Neo was the &quot;Chosen-One&quot; all the time and it doesn't matter if Trinity would fall in love with him or not. He had his abilities, he trained them and it's logically to assume that he would get them. But no! He fully gets them only when Trinity says she loves him. Yes, it was in Oracles prophecy, but don't You think that the things You can do are not depend from what other people think about You? This is really falls apart, and this is a major moment in movie.  To avoid any farther damaging of a Matrix fan's feelings, I must say that this movie is not all that bad. It's a good show and you can really enjoy it, but please, don't call it &quot;The best sci-fi film of the Millennium&quot;! Go see Alien instead.  My mark - 4 out of 10."
"Yet another film from the school of thought that thinks special effects compensate for no plot or character development.  At least Keanu isn't given an opportunity to act; that really would have made this film horrendous. Instead, it's an o.k. action film that has its fun effects and its dull moments.  Consider it a lukewarm appetizer before Star Wars opens next month."
The Matrix is quite possibly the lamest cultural phenomenon since The Blair Witch Project. It's all polish and no substance. Frankly I don't find any redeeming qualities to this film franchise at all.  Lots of big flashy fight sequences with no context. Lots of high-tech special effects with no character. Lots of plot complexity with no heart.  I plain and simply do not get what all the fuss was about.  And it took me multiple tries to watch this film end-to-end without falling asleep in the middle. The whole sequence of Morpheus teaching Neo about the Matrix put me to sleep every time.  Horribly overrated. In ten years people will look back on this and say &quot;what in the world was I thinking?&quot;  4 out of 10.  Barky
"I think this movie will be forgotten pretty fast. The first time I saw it, I was stunned by the bullet time and the &quot;real-ish&quot; combat. But all in all, it's a very shallow film. Neo is about as interesting a character as a dead fish (not counting Finding Nemo, which probably could have contained a dead fish more interesting than the character Neo), an Morpheus, Smith, Trinity, all of them, Switch and.. oh, did I mention all the characters? They are boring. And the story is very silly. Come on - humans as batteries, programs with families?? Who designed this matrix-thing anyways? It must have been an idiot! The plot barely survives the first time 'round - second time you watch it - it fails.   The sad part is that this film is being dragged down in the mud with the two sequels that have been made for the sake of sequels with a combined narrative of about a minute. Worse examples of &quot;and then&quot;-scripts are only found in Steven Seagal-movies. (except the action which is very amusing - Neo beating up a couple of Smiths with a Smith..)"
"I'm waiting, like a vulture, for this movie to become dated. And it will. The club scene, the sunglasses, the fashions, the cell phones - oh yes, one day it will all look and sound unbearably corny. And then, we'll have to actually pay attention to the script and the acting (or lack thereof). And we will realize that this movie reeks.  For an action film, it's remarkably dull, with the first half basically consisting of a looong string of complex explanations. It doesn't help that Neo is a totally flat character. If I'm to care that he's trapped in the Matrix, I need to see more of his life there. Sadly, one scene of Neo at work, being berated by the boss, does not a fascinating character make. I also think it was a terrible mistake to make him a programmer, since he already understands the nature of computers and should, therefore, be more receptive to the idea of the Matrix instead of consistently incredulous. And am I supposed to believe that this master hacker doesn't know what an EMP is?  The film is also terribly derivative. Morpheus is an even more gaseous version of Yoda, and Neo is clearly based on Luke (promising young man discovers super-powers and helps rebels overthrow their nasty oppressors). The visual style is ripped off from the Alien movies, as is the snake-like parasite that somehow manages to burst through Neo's bellybutton without leaving a mark. The evil agents clearly evoke The X-Files, the notion that mankind is enslaved by robots in an apocalyptic future comes straight out of The Terminator, and - most damningly of all - the concept of a virtual reality environment called the Matrix had featured some 23 years earlier in an episode of Doctor Who (&quot;The Deadly Assassin&quot;). Maybe the Matrix didn't consciously rip off all of these sources, but it's certainly worth noting that this movie is utterly unoriginal in every respect but its action photography (and that will, like all the rest, probably date badly).  Needless to say, Reeves is pretty bland, and Fishbourne is just plain embarrassing in his first scene (it doesn't help that his every dire line is punctuated by a melodramatic bolt of lightning). Only Carrie-Anne Moss's Trinity comes up smelling like a rose, and it's good to see such a strong role for a female character - though I think she should've been the hero, as she's got more charisma than everyone else put together.  I was quite disturbed by the metal detector scene, as it appears to be nothing more than a particularly violent video game sequence that's meant to inspire future generations of random crazy shooting maniacs. It's worth mentioning that the security guards who are so callously slaughtered by Neo and Trinity are not evil, just thralls of the Matrix, like Neo had been merely days before. Why, therefore, does he have no qualms about blowing them all to bits? Tacky, man - really tacky.  I enjoyed Joe Pantoliano's character, probably because he was allowed to have an actual set of motivations and opinions, whereas the other characters are just filler. And you know, a few segments were effective; the Oracle has real presence. But the film is basically a dog, and while it pretends to cast all kinds of light on the problems with modern society, at the end of the day it's a stupid action movie that raises interesting issues, then resolves them with ridiculously OTT karate battles.  As a movie, The Matrix is decent entertainment. As sci-fi, it's derivative and sloppy. As philosophy, it's risible, misleading, and poorly informed junk."
"`I hate those movies based on special effects with a poor plot,' I told my friend when he suggested me to go see `The Matrix' on its opening night. But when I kept hearing excellent reviews of the movie, my curiosity increased, and I decided to give it a try. Well, I was right: not only I did not enjoy the movie, but I also could not wait to rush out of the movie theater.  First of all: the PLOT was truly poor, and it is clear that most of the scenes were designed merely to show special effects, rather than to transmit a precise message (and at least twenty minutes of the movie could have been cut because of this). The first rule of screenwriting is to satisfy the audience's need for orientation, clarifying since the very beginning who are the characters of the movie, and what is their function. I had to wait an hour to understand that. This method (increasing the suspense of this audience by postponing a real explanation of the characters' roles) could have been effective, only if they were introduced in a more clear way. I often felt lost, as many key aspects of the movie were clarified too late (i.e. the phone transportation).  The DIALOGUES were truly lame and unoriginal (except for some funny references to the Wizard of OZ).  The CHARACTERS were not developed at all. Still now, thinking about the movie, I cannot really say what was a peculiar trait of each character: their personalities did not stand out at all. They were rather divided into the stereotypical `good' and `bad' categories.  Still mentioning STEREOTYPES, I think the whole movie was a TT (Temple of Testosterone): the ideal place for the satisfaction of a male audience. Why? Because of great fight scenes, vigorous men with a perpetual grimace who want to either save or `own' the world, women with big breasts who don't talk (the woman in red), and strong but yet submissive women driven by sentimentality (Trinity).  What I SUGGEST is to go see it if you like video games and want some entertainment. But if you are one of those persons who want to step out of a movie theater with a new awareness or &#150; even better &#150; a call to action, I suggest you'd save the 8 bucks for a better cause."
"OK- don't get me wrong this was a groundbreaking movie. However I have some serious problems with it.  First the good. The action scenes and special effects are awesome. They really did set new standards and knocked that hackneyed load of tripe The Phantom menace into the bin. The ending is also fantastic- there is no way that an ending this perfect was meant to be followed by two mediocre sequels  However, The plot is more full of holes than a fishnet stocking. For instance- I know this is nit picking- but how can Cypher be betraying the crew when not only do they have to plug him into the matrix for him to go and meet the agents in the first instance, but are also monitoring said conversation.  Secondly- the philosophical parts. The matrix basically asks the question is it better to live the dream. The flaw comes in that in this case it is quite clearly better- great, so mankind is not &quot;free&quot; but each person lives a sufficiently realistic existence inside their own head for it not to matter. If the alternative is living in fear and squalor, dodging sentinels whilst eating what looks like congealed semen then I would frankly rather live inside my own dreams dining on fine food etc.  Next up, the acting. Could someone please explain to me how Keanu Reeves is a leading man. He single handedly trashes all the good work put in by the supporting cast- especially Laurence Fishburne and Hugo Weaving. Anyway how can I be expected to take a film seriously where Keanu is effectively god?  Overall, a reasonable film but not the second coming of Christ so many people think it is."
"I really can't understand all of the accolades that this film continues to receive.  Has the entire world gone insane and forgotten that what makes a good movie is its script.  Has everything become about special effects, special effects and more special effects?   Sure, if you want special effects, this is definitely the movie for you.  If I was writing this entry for the Special Effects Message Board, I would have given it a 10/10 rating. But frankly, I need more than great visuals to have a movie work for me and as this film has nothing else, it gets a 1 rating.  I know my rating won't dissuade the masses from singing the praises of this movie.  I know that my rating won't stop the inevitable outcome of Matrix II becoming the highest grossing film of all time during its opening weekend. Perhaps the only thing this review will do is lead like minded people in the direction of other movies that deal with similar themes yet actually have characters that you will care about.  Let me make clear, that the core concept of Matrix is a great one.  The whole idea of our world being part of someone else's imagination is something that has fascinated me for as long as I can remember.  When Matrix originally debuted, you couldn't have paid me to stay away from the theater. Someone had finally put one of the great philosophic debates into movie form and I knew that it had to be incredible.   Instead, the only thing incredible about the film (beside the special effects) was how wrong I had been.  There on the screen was a movie without any real screenplay.  No matter how much I tried, I couldn't bring myself to care about these characters because they just weren't real.   You would think that in a film dealing with reality-as-you-know-it crumbling around the main characters, that there would be some exploration into how the newly revealed reality affected their psyches.   But that doesn't happen here.  Instead, we are given a movie where the emphasis is placed upon stocking up on as many guns and other weapons as possible so that the bad guys can be shot and killed.   Give me a break!!!  I think what has happened in these type of movies is that the producers are handed a great idea and then spend their entire budget on the actors and special effects.  They don't bother to spend anything on the screenplay because they have realized that good ones aren't necessary anymore.  Just give the public some nice CGI and they'll flock to the theatre. Unfortunately, they seem to be right.   Movies like Matrix and and the Jurassic Park series continue to sell out even though the stories are horrible.  Give us a cool CGI Dinosaur running around a city or make the lead characters do CGI kung-fu moves and we'll go home happy.   Never mind that we have absolutely no insight into who the main characters are.  We don't need to care about them as long as they are involved in computerized situations!   (Did anyone actually give a damn whether Jeff Goldblum's character lived or died in Lost World?)  Anyway - my point is that you can certainly make a film exploring ideas and concepts similar to those in these mega movies and still have the audience care about the characters.  In the case of Matrix, for those interested in a good &quot;reality-as-you-know-it&quot; type of movie, I would suggest Josef Rusnak's 'Thirteenth Floor' or even better yet, if you can handle sub-titles, Alejandro Amenabar's &quot;Open Your Eyes&quot;.   Both of these movies manage to give you an incredible story, with characters you will remember long after the credits have rolled.  Believe it or not, you'll actually find yourself wondering about the characters' futures rather than simply commenting on how cool that CGI generated flip-in-the-air was.  Good movies are supposed to leave you with questions. They are supposed to make you think.  You didn't really have to do that with Matrix, and its a shame because the movie could and should have been so much more than it ended up being.  In my opinion, Matrix was a waste of both time and money.  I will just keep praying that one day the movie going public will give up on these special effects monsters and turn back to the days of enjoying movies with plots. On that day, films like &quot;Open Your Eyes&quot; will finally get their due and Hollywood will stop giving us mere eye candy like Matrix and similar ilk."
"Not as clever and innovative as its reputation and certainly not as clever and innovative as it thinks it is, &#x27;The Matrix&#x27; is an overrated mish-mash of SF ideas we&#x27;ve seen in &#x27;Star Trek&#x27;, &#x27;Doctor Who&#x27;, &#x27;Total Recall&#x27; and the &#x27;Terminator&#x27; films (even L. Ron Hubbard&#x27;s &#x27;Battlefield Earth&#x27; gets a look in) dressed up in leather coats and sunglasses.   The look is admittedly cool, and the first half is engaging enough, but come ON people, this is nothing but two hours of Morpheus spouting laughably meaningless wind-baggery to hollow characters; action sequences imported from Hong Kong that utilise the famed &#x27;bullet time&#x27; effect far less than you&#x27;d think (most of the action is filmed in sub- Woo slo-mo with bullet cases popping out of guns); occasionally abysmal dialogue littered with clich&#xE9;s; and a plot that runs out of borrowed ideas after the first hour and becomes increasingly routine.   It&#x27;s pretty tiresome stuff. Sometimes it excites, mostly it&#x27;s just surprisingly dull."
"If it wasn't for the special effects, I would have left the theater in the middle of the film. I mean, this is one of those films whose dialogue is so lame, you just want to tell the actors to stop talking and start fighting. I thought Hugo Weaving was going to be good, until I got sick of the way he was talking. The Wachowski brothers should have made him into a silent character, one who does everything but talk. The special effects were spectacular, but I have to say the action scenes, especially when the actors were shooting at each other, were really unnecessary. When Keanu Reeves was firing his weapons, he was always in slow-motion. It's like watching a Hong Kong action film that has only Hollywood actors. This film should only be watched by people who are EXTREMELY fond of special effects."
"Everybody else has already said most everything positive I have to say about this movie.  Great action, kudos for actors doing their own kung-fu..et all. But. There is a huge downside to this movie that has seemingly escaped everyone else commenting here. These down sides don't keep The Matrix from being a decent guy movie, or a decent techno-geek movie, but they do keep it from being anything resembling a good cinematic movie:  Foremost is the cliche'd and campy-as-hell dialog.  Lawrence Fishbourne is a fine actor, and I cringed for his sake every time he was forced to say inane things like &quot;He is The One&quot; with conviction every ten minutes.  Much of the rest of his dialogue is just as vague and pseudo-foreboding (The One, The Oracle, The Matrix, The Agents...the horror!  Come on, even mediocre sci-fi should be able to get beyond this).  I was doing my best to believe in a world to support the stunning action, but with each character spewing Total Recall-ish lines and bad Dark City outtake ideas, it was damned near impossible.  Half the lines are embarrassedly half-hearted attempts at lame self-realization, with metaphors like &quot;the path&quot; and &quot;the door&quot; overused to create an overriding question of destiny, a question which doesn't hold together well enough to ever be answered.  By the time The Matrix tries to answer it, we no longer care what it has to say.  Then there's the vague excuse for a plot, the shining moments of which are buried under some truly awful scenes.  The truth behind The Matrix is vague and unexplained, and I got the impression that this was not because of some sly sleight-of-hand by the Wachowski brothers, but rather because they weren't ever able to create an insightful explanation that held together. In my book, any plot where the main character's resurrection is explained by &quot;Well, he can't die, because I love him!&quot; isn't any plot at all.  Lastly, the plot has holes, chief among them the fact that a near-dead Morpheus does NOT have holes at all after sitting unmoving in the middle of a room that has just been chain-gunned halfway to hell.  I suppose Neo not only controls his aim with his world-bending powers, but also uses his power to make a notoriously inaccurate chaingun perfectly precise?  Also..when you're standing on top of a building, on the edge of the roof, and a terrific explosion happens right below you, the force is going to blow you the hell back, whether or not you're the hero in the movie.  Despite all these attempts to make The Matrix just another crappy American action movie, it does stand out in a few ways.  Everything visual is amazing, from the fights to the futuristic scenes (the baby-harvesting scene is enough to make anybody's blood run cold) to the futuristic city set (watch for the black doorman in the tux by the elevator..a great touch.) The scene with The Oracle is also a cut above, with the waiting room and The Oracle herself far more original than the rest of The Matrix.  The spoon-bending kid is especially interesting, even if she is practising Buddhism without a license.  On the whole..this movie is at most a 5 or a 6 out of 10, chiefly because of the action scenes.  The dialog is crap, the plot is half-assed, but this movie does a good job of being all about &quot;guns. Lots of guns.&quot;  It's in the same vein as Total Recall, but better, but don't go expecting to see the next Blade Runner, or even the next Dark City."
"After almost two years of feeling almost guilty for not having seen this movie, and under the advice of many friends of mine, I finally took a look on The Matrix. What a waste of time! How deceiving! It seems it is enough with having a noisy soundtrack, a bit of misled oriental philosophy and some weird looking guys acting (?) to have people mouthwatering. Oh, yes, the visuals are great. Maybe the only contribution of this movie is the release of more or less new FX that could be used in further, more intelligent movies. It is incredible how so many inconsistencies can be found in the plot without making this movie lose a bit of its undeserved legend. Here are a few of the details that made this film unbearable to me:  - Machines are obtaining energy from biological sources. And from all the living creatures populating this world, it is the human race that is being used, when hundreds of species would have been much more efficient &quot;batteries&quot;, without having to create a Matrix to have them comfortable in their sleep - The Matrix is a virtual world designed to keep battery-people happy in their dreams. However, the battle happens precisely in this imaginary world, which has no sense. You can even diein this electronic world and your real body dies, too!!! - After being flushed away when he wakes up, Neo is rescued with an enormous device that was ready to act under the very nose of the machines  Beyond FX, the movie is absolutely boring. You could always disconnect your brain and simply watch at the action, and rate this movie more or less high as an inoffensive entertainment. But then you must face all that incredible mythology built up around this movie, as if it showed a new philosophy or some scientific value! The worst thing of it, is that it is seen by many people as a sci-fi movie. Well, Star Wars deserve being called &quot;sci-fi&quot; a thousand times more. Call this a fantasy movie, an action tale... whatever. But please not a sci-fi picture"
"I found the underlying concepts of this movie totally absurd - such as the use of humans as an energy source (and what is the energy source keeping the humans alive?) or the fact that computers would even care what was going on in the heads of their batteries.   At another level the philosophy is also absurd. A key feature is that the Agents are able to go beyond the limitations of the Matrix and perform &quot;superhuman&quot; actions. Our hero is someone who - after much searching by Morpheus - is also able to go beyond the limits. However, since all we are talking about here is going beyond a set of computer generated rules why is our hero limited to the same level of skills as the Agents? Why is he not able to go beyond their rules to a still higher level?  It was just a flimsy excuse for some fancy effects."
"When I first saw this movie I was impressed. Perhaps I was swept along with the millions of people who were amazed at this slick, smart, sci-fi. Recently, I watched it again, and realized just how disappointing this movie is.  The idea is a winner, I'll grant that, and yes, it is beautiful, everything looks good. The special effects are to die for, and the action sequences towards the end rank among the best I've ever seen. But that must've been all people remember about this movie, because the rest is truly horrible: corniness to the max.  Not only are the lines continually terrible, the script writers seem to be trying to be so mysterious and philosophical that some of the things (especially Morpheus) people say come out sounding like they're a complete space case. They simply dont make sense.  The acting is truly dull. Absolutely lifeless, except for a reasonably impressive performance by Hugo Weaving, which doesn't save the rest of the cast from looking completely pathetic.  Perhaps I am being too harsh, because this movie is worth watching if you're prepared to sit through the cringe-worthy script at the beginning to see the end. And after all, it's science fiction, and there are, indeed, very few that manage to weave a clever script into them. So watch it, but at your own risk."
"I truly think that nobody deserves to call this a classic. This movie have some great actions scenes but have no hot chicks like Charlie's Angels. I mean look at the situation, in the matrix, an ugly babe in a black suit doing some karate and in Charlie's angels, Drew Barrymore, blonde, breast open licking a car or sitting with her legs wide opens. That's a good movie, not The Matrix.  pass this one"
"Matrix die-hards aren't going to like my thoughts on this film.  Beyond the cool camera stylings of the brothers, this film had less content than a 30 minute episode of Teletubbies.  It's a shame that they have to make a sequel of this film, but with the other movie fair on the horizon it might actually present an alternative.  I don't buy the story, mystique and cool music.  In 10 years this will look as uncool as the Last Starfight and Red Dawn."
"Good guys (humans) against bad guys (robots). Story made no sense and it was old hat. Supposed to be in the future but everything was late 20th Century. Ending was fairly predictable, only suspense was how they got there. Special effects very ordinary considering today's standards. One thing that did not make sense was that transporting could only be done by regular telephones and not by cell phone. Acting was pedestrian. Reeves has a long way to go."
"A cool premise but a plotless execution.  While watching it, I had the feeling I was seeing a kung fu movie with modern eye candy (lots morphing &amp; slow motion).  If you like kung fu &amp; eye candy, it's probably pretty good.  If you want to see the premise developed with character, plot, &amp; maybe even a moral or two, you'll be disappointed."
"This film is easily the most overrated flick of 1999. Okay, it looks stunning and the effects are unbelievably good but the plot and it's sensitivities are on a par with any indistinguishable installment of Star Trek(whatever series). This would not be so bad if this film was purported to be a good action movie (which it is) but it also seems to think it is a valuable and deep statement about the human condition (it is not) and even that would not be so bad if a lot of people didn't think it was. The movie exploits a few fears people share in today's society.  Fear of technology (the machines have taken over) Fear of annihilation (the world is a wasteland, physical or emotional) and plain Fear of being Boring (just a cog in the machine, unimaginative,... et al). Just as  any  average Joe or Joe-ette can for a few hours imagine him or herself to be an invincible starship captain or a bigbreasted, ponytailed woman searching for hidden treasures so the Matrix gives us a picture of how we would like to be, not a simple man or woman trying to get by but someone who can rock even reality itself.  Meanwhile all the fans of this film come out of the movie theatre seemingly feeling enlightened in some kind of way and then go home to play the videogame and then go to sleep to be on time for their job the next day. This is simply an escapist film with a waferthin veneer of depth and almost cynically so. In short I have nothing against the film itself but I do object to the fact that it claims to be more than an sci-fi action film. If you think this is a deep film throw away your gamepad and go read a book (preferably not one of the .... for dummies kind)."
the matrix is a simple conspiracy/messiah story with stunning special effects.  the acting was wooden and the lack of any real twists or surprises left it to the effects to keep my attention.
"I have seen this film quite a few times and every time I want more. It could have been better.  I found this film to be quite unintelligent. The characters have no good qualities. The F/X are simply okay. Bullit time as been used countless times before in commercials, music videos, etc. The F/X is NOT new, its NOT groundbreaking, it is simply okay.  Now, on to the morals of the film:  Why is it that the good guys all wear black and kill the people that they are attempting to save. Why would they kill them? Why could they not explain to the &quot;Prisoners&quot; what is going on with the Matrix? Oh, yes, I forgot that this is an unintelligent action film. There is very little substance in the film.  I dont see how anyone can find Neo and Trinity good guys. They kill people without thinking twice. The bad guy (Hugo Weaving) has more qualites than Neo and Trinity. He wants something, he wants to be free, to live a life beyond the Matrix. He has more development than the central characters. Also, the bad guys do not kill people without thinking twice. They simply are misunderstood. They are more like police officers, not bad guys. They just want things to run smoothly. Or perhaps, this is what the film makers want. It seems that I am putting more thought into the film than they did.  Now, onto the action and direction:  The Wachowski brothers are attempting something that has already been done in countless comics and Anime films. It seems as if they are trying to be like John Woo. They make the shoot-out in slow-mo, just like Woo. But they dont have the touch that makes Woo's action look like a ballet (Look at Hard Boiled or MI2). Its simply a mish-mash of nothing.  The look of the film does not inspire, it doesnt make you think. It simply looks like its dark and dreary everywhere. Now, dark cinematography can be done very well (Dark City), but for this its just uninspired mish-mash.  The film seems to think that the audience as not intelligence. Laurence Fishburne sits there and explains to you the entire plot of the film, it treats us as if we cant think, as if we are part of the matrix and are mindless beings. This is not true, but for this generation, we might need to make an exception.  So, in conclusion. I would not really wish this film onto anyone. Its morally wrong, the effects are nothing outstanding, the acting is okay, the plot if not developed. Its just not good. But on the other hand, in the words of the 12-18 year-old kids, &quot;Its cool.&quot; How wrong they are.  3/10"
"The trailer was like the average comedy trailer.   The best things in the movie are all there.   I loved the effects in the movie, but the story was beyond silly.   Striving for some sort of ultra reality, the movie takes itself FAR too seriously.   I enjoyed watching it, but in the end, I thought the movie was a clever fraud."
"Ultimately disappointing sci-fi movie, starring Keanu Reeves and a bored-silly Lawrence Fishburne. Movie seems to be more about attitude (wearing way-cool sunglasses and dark trenchcoats) than about fighting for the world's future. For a vastly superior film with virtually the same plot, check out Dark City, starring the marvelous Rufus Sewall and William Hurt."
"Here's another one where I'm late in sending in my comments.  I was also fairly late in viewing.  By the time I got to see the &quot;staggering&quot; flo-mo effects, they were already commonplace in TV beer adverts.  Now I come to think about it, so were anthropomorphic creepy-crawlies.  That's the problem with special effects.  They soon become old hat.  With me the watershed came about fifty minutes into the film.  I began to get bored, and there was a long way to go!  What's next.  Oh, God!  Episode 1!  Ron"
"I went to see this movie based on the ratings and comments at IMDb. I can't believe this movie got as high a ranking: there's no originality at all (everything in it has already been done). Above that there's the (in my opinion) very bad acting. I was so bored I even fell asleep for 15 minutes. And on top of all this we get the usual 'message to the world', which seems to be obligatory in every American movie nowadays. I do admit: some of the special effects were not bad, that's why I rated it 3. The other theater was showing 'The Mummy': I think I should have gone there."
"Fine special effects - but the plot &amp; action of this film reminds me of a prolonged modernised remake of a Tom &amp; Jerry cartoon. A lot of fighting, gruesome destructions and instant revivals. If I remove the fighting scenes, practically nothing remains.  I like a film that makes my head spin. This one did not. By the way - how can one BEAT a computer program into a crash - in a virtual world made and controlled by an opposing computer? Well one can hardly call such a thing a &quot;goof&quot; as anything is possible (or impossible!) in a virtual world."
"You know, each time I view The Matrix, once again, I find that I&#x27;m liking the thing less and less. It&#x27;s true. In fact, it&#x27;s actually gotten to the point here where I literally find myself about a hair&#x27;s breadth away from totally hating this flick, big time. Yep. I figure that with just a few more viewings and I should, most definitely, be there, sure enough.  It&#x27;s so true that The Matrix&#x27; story is so riddled full of holes, and rife with inconsistencies, that it makes a piece of Swiss Cheese look like a solid brick of Cheddar.  It doesn&#x27;t help matters much (when I&#x27;m trying to enjoy this film) that I detest Keanu Reeves as much as I do. I really think that he makes a damn-lousy Neo. I mean - Let&#x27;s face it - Reeves just isn&#x27;t a very convincing bright-boy. And he makes a truly terrible lover for Trinity, too.  What more can I say?"
"This movie is one of the most stupidest of all time, the story doesn&#39;t exist. The only limited interest I get in it are the bullet time and the sfx in general. Even the fightings are mediocre, If you throw sfx you can see that the choreography is average and that the actors are really awful in it, but making them jump 50 feet high or break wall tends to hide their poor limitations, I saw a lot of kung fu movies and i can say that Keanu reeves with his manicured hands doesn&#39;t fit at all. This movie is a mix of Dragon Ball Z for the fighting, Superman for the flying, and let&#39;s not forget Dark City for the atmosphere and for a lot of plot by plot scene.  I gave it 2/10."
"I know many people will not agree with this, but read this. Matrix is a hugely overrated movie and is so slow. The whole movie is about Neo trying to discover what the Matrix is. It can be explained in 5-10 minutes, but it is explained in almost 2 hours. The only good thing about this movie is 3 or 4 scenes of amazing graphics. If you like the film only because of these scenes, then you might as well just download the trailer. I saw the trailer and went to see the film, the good bits were in the trailer only. The movie is ever so slow, when does it end is what i was thinking. Keauna Reeves best film is and will always be Speed. Decent kung fu, but i prefer kung fu hustle."
"So much hype.so little excitement for the audience. This film is pure product and it'a a shame.I saw it the other night at an outdoor cinema and i know it's a few years since all the marketing hype, but it really was boring. All that money on special effects and yet it really is not exciting."
"I hadn't really expected a lot, but I was amazed at just how dull this film was.  The effects are, quite rightly, considered great and are obviously influential in many ways.  But other than a couple of action sequences at the beginning and end, you have nothing but dull lectures.  Lawrence Fishburne is too good an actor to play a second-rate Yoda like this and the &quot;philosophy&quot; was the type of thing you outgrow in 10th grade (&quot;How do we REALLY know reality?&quot;) presented in an ultraserious tone that makes the claptrap seem important.  This type of thing has been done before and better, and the various plot holes and inconsistancies were just a sign of sloppy storytelling.  The villains were quite probably the least interesting in the history of film, with tiresome mannerisms that made you want to go out and slap the director.  And the cliches!  Villains in suits and black sunglasses!  A traitor in the heros' midst!   Man redeemed due to love a woman!  Can anyone really call these original?  The effects cannot be faulted, and there were a couple of good action sequences, but the film was poorly written and just plain dull.  More action would have been better, or anything to spare the audience the puerile philosophizing.  Certainly one of the most overrated films of the decade."
"Well, this is the lowest rating I've ever given a film (3). Boring beyond belief. It's not like the idea is new; in fact, I would think the producer of this film would have to pay royalties to the guy who wrote &quot;The Thirteenth Floor&quot;, I think it was, with Craig Bierko. That movie was entertaining and suspenseful. This is just the worst. You like science fiction? see &quot;Last Night.&quot; You want another film about a manufactured universe? How about &quot;The Truman Show?&quot; This was a total waste of time, and I'm afraid its rating as #31 on the all-time honors list, at this writing, is just a testament to the fact that too few people my age can really use the internet. Keanau Reeves better stop doing this stuff, 'cause, like McCauley Culkin, he's gonna outgrow them."
"The Matrix has to be the most over commericalised film... it is  complete nonsense, so shallow even the supposed philosophy is just laughable &quot;hes the one, or is he?&quot; the kung fu scenes are just pathetic, Keanu Reeves its compleltey useless he should stick to films such as bill and teds excellent adventure. I personally dont see why such great bands such as deftones and marilyn manson were willing to make a soundtrack to this complete disaster-its more of a horror film and should immediately be erased from existence. poor poor quality."
"Here's one film the hype of which I simply don't get. The special effects aren't that good, and the martial arts are junior grade HK stuff. Keanu is terrible as usual and Carrie-Anne Moss isn't much better. The premise itself has some promise, but we spend too much time in The Matrix, where the rules seem to apply only when the Wachowski Brothers want them too. Example: why do our heroes have to be transported through a particular phone wire? Why can't they use their ubiquitous cell phones? Could it be to set up some chase scenes? Why, in fact, does The Matrix include all these old fashioned wired phones, when the bad guys know well and good that the good guys use them as a means of transportation?   Judging from the Reality that Fishburne and company live in, I'll take The Matrix any day over the metaphysical bollocks that apparently passes for real life."
"An interesting premise which fails to live up to its promise. The apparent super-human abilities of the film's protagonists are a result of human will-power overcoming the machine.  Unfortunately, the script is predictable, the design not as stylish as the ads would have us believe, and the visual effects inappropriate. It relies too much on special effects. The film gives the impression that it is simply a vehicle for someone to show off a new technique. The resulting scenes are pretty, but fail to maintain the suspension of disbelief so essential to the successful use of visual effects.  It tries, but fails miserably, to be thought provoking. Instead, it is merely irritating. A disappointing film which would have been better aimed at an older audience."
"&quot;Ignorance is bliss&quot; as they say in the film. You go in without any knowledge of the Science-Fiction literature and you enjoy the film, you go in the theatre with some SF knowledge, the amount of rip-off and open plagiarism annoys you like hell. The Matrix is as if the screenwriter decided to use parts of his fave SF stories and made up a story to bind them all: The Second Foundation Trilogy,  all that's written by William Gibson, Ender's Game by O.S. Card, Star Trek's holodeck concept, references to Terminator films, and to Cliff Simak's short stories, and more and more show up in the film. And with awe and horror I saw Obi-Wan and young Luke in the Morpheus - Neo dialogue somewhere in the first 30 minutes of the film; even the music was a la Star Wars at that moment. I guess they thought &quot;most people stop reading SF after they are 20 years old, so they either won't bother or won't remember&quot; which is a crying shame. However, giving the devil its due, the special effects are interesting, the pace is high and the music/sound effects are deafening, therefore The Matrix becomes an interesting spectacle, but it's still hollow, borrowed, and plundered from others' decent works. Pity. I wish it were &quot;the&quot; SF film people were talking about. Did you notice, I didn't write even a single word about Keanu Reeves' expressionless, lifeless, face."
"Damn, I just hate the &quot;The Matrix&quot;! The only good visual effects are already shown in the trailer. The remaining 2 hours really aren't worth seeing. Boring, pseudo-intellectual dialogues, the worst computer effects since &quot;Blade&quot; and an ending, which only could get a laughter out of me!"
"The Matrix started with a good idea for a subject about reality. Then added a babe, a shoot-em up, and some Kung Fu and called it a movie. If you can dodge a bullet, why do you need Kung Fu. His mission is to save the world? Most the planet is burned beyond recognition, if he brings people back to reality, where are they going to live. Not a tight story! This is an easy one to miss!"
"The previews and commercials for this film had me expecting something great. I was instead suprised to see something that reminded me more of &quot;Johnny Mnemonic,&quot; not in terms of plot, but in terms of the pace (sort of slow), and the &quot;Keanu Reeves action hero of the future&quot; motif.  Overall, I thought that the plot was rather simple, and despite that, Laurence Fishburne's character rehashed it for the audience numerous times.  I thought the special effects were great, but special effects alone don't make a movie great.  The action was nice, but there could have been more of it."
While I must admit that the effects were special and the Kung-Fu scenes well choreographed the movie itself was poor in keeping my attention. I fell asleep twice in this over-hyped movie that would have been better read in comic book format.
"Only in Hollywood could a stiff like Keanu Reeves get top billing over a fine, classically trained actor like Laurence Fishburne.  And only in Hollywood could a typical, derivative, way-too-long shoot-em-up action movie get such good reviews.  Ladies and gentlemen, I hate to burst your bubble, but there were maybe ten minutes worth of eye-popping special effects.  The rest?  Ponderous clap-trap about &quot;The Martix&quot; and &quot;The One.&quot;  Most of the &quot;action?&quot;  Typical gun fights where for some reason twenty &quot;bad guys&quot; with automatic weapons (on their home turf) cannot shoot two intruders.  It was boring and unbelievable the last 2,500 times it was done, and it is boring and unbelievable now.  I gag on my mouse.  One thumb down."
"Ok, so it's the number one movie right now, but WHY?????? Why did I think this movie was cheap and worthless, and deserving of my mediocre vote? (a 3, btw)  1. The acting was atrocious!  Keanu, YOU'RE NOT IN BILL AND TED'S EXCELLENT ADVENTURE ANYMORE!  SNAP OUT OF IT!  Fishburne was a robot, and carrie-anne moss was terrible! 2. The storyline was not very impressive...it was just a little from Invasion of the Body Snatchers, a little from Planet of the Apes, and a little from every cheap B sci-fi flick ever made! 3. Where were the impressive special effects the trailers were promising? What, the slo-mo bullets?  Nothing that hasn't been done a million times by John Woo! 4. That karate sequence between Reeves and Fishburne - how cheesy was that?  My advice is, stop being a bunch of sheep, and don't go watch this movie! It really does stink!  You're better off going out to rent a few Brat Pack movies instead!"
"I hated this movie.  Half the story line was stolen from a Star Trek episode called &quot;The Thaw&quot; and the other half was taken from the movie &quot;Dark City.&quot; The only orignal touch was the Kung-Fu fighting, which isn't original at all.  I gave this movie a 3, don't see it, instead watch Star Trek, Dark City and the Terminator and give credit to the people who came up with these ideas in the first place."
"Hackneyed, muddy plot. Fishburne is reduced to spouting Zen platitudes and comments about the Net as poorly-reasoned as Al Gore's recent gaffes. The film is basically an excuse for the special effects, and the best that can be said for Keanu Reeves is that he wasn't any worse than the character he played in &quot;Johnny Mnemonic&quot; (or is that &quot;Moronic&quot;?)"
"The Matrix lives up to its billing as a computer program laden with special effects.  What?  This is a movie?  Could have fooled me.  I thought I had seen this movie before when it was called Johnny Mneumonic or was it Spaceballs.  This was a typical movie with characters and plot straight out of Mission Impossible.  Sure the stunts and effects were cool, but Keanu Reeves's acting overshadowed it.  It was if Ted Logan (from Bill and Ted's Excellent Adventure) was the main character.  It was entertaining, but not for the $7 or so that admission costs.  This is a decent movie to see on tv or even for a free rental, but I wouldn't spend my money on it."
I saw this movie recently and would not recommend it.  The plot is confusing and hard to follow.  I found the movie to be way too long and way too boring.  This movie probably appeals most to science fiction buffs.  Both my twenty year old son and I were not impressed--we couldn't wait for the movie to end.
"I may spend more time writing this comment than any of the 26 others I have completed for IMDb. For one thing, I really need to examine why I have such a totally negative view of this movie, which many others adore so. I do think they must either be 12-year-olds, or older folk with their mental development permanently stunted, stuck forever at the 12-year-old level. Sorry, but that&#39;s really the way I feel about anyone who raves about &quot;The Matrix&quot;. It is sad that I&#39;ll spend (waste) my time in this way.  Certainly, there are worse movies in the same genre. One example is &quot;Equilibrium,&quot; which has achieved the dubious distinction being one of only two films, the other being &quot;Bloody Sunday,&quot; with my &quot;2 out of 10&quot; rating. Only &quot;Narc&quot; got a lower rating (obviously, a &quot;1&quot;) in my list of IMDb voted-on films. I think that pegs The Matrix at a &quot;3&quot;, although that may indeed be too generous.  I think Keanu Reeves is, generally, a good actor, although many, if not most, of the films in which he has appeared do scant justice to what acting ability he possesses. &quot;Speed&quot; comes to mind; a very bad movie. And Reeves definitely comes off as badly in The Matrix as he did in Speed. On the other hand, the relatively unknown film &quot;Johnny Mnemonic,&quot; although it obviously falls far short of fulfilling the wild vision of William Gibson&#39;s fine short story, gets at least my mild applause; Reeves was as good as he gets in that film, I think. And, guess what? For his Johnny Mnemonic effort, Reeves was nominated for the Razzie Award, as worst actor of the year!  I don&#39;t know what you call the genre, if only one exists, for The Matrix and Equilibrium. Science Fiction? Cyber-Noir? Impossible Future-Fantasy Kung-Fu? &quot;Dark City,&quot; I think, also belongs to this indeterminate genre, but Dark City resides at the best end of its spectrum, as opposed to the other two, which are so abysmally bad they inspire nausea in me. The stunningly beautiful images of Dark City stand in huge contrast to the formulaic shallowness of The Matrix. Well, there can be no comparison, really. Dark City is a great film; The Matrix just isn&#39;t. I will try to explain why I have these starkly-opposed opinions...  I believe there ought to be at least three criteria for rating any film: Screenplay, Acting, and Production. Of the three, Acting must be at least a bit more important than the other two. Good acting can go far towards rescuing marginal writing or poor production. And bad acting can absolutely ruin an otherwise excellent story and image.  The Matrix: The acting is unconvincing. Screenplay: Shallow, displaying no redeeming or memorable story. Production: Dominated by gratuitous special effects, which have little relation to furthering what story there is.  I just decided to drop this project. The Matrix deserves no more of my time. 3 out of 10. Finis."
"Once in a while a film comes along that everyone has to like, whether its any good or not doesn't matter. The hype and the fact that it has `cool' elements in it,  like killing at the drop of a hat, dark glasses and long leather coats and of course special effects, make up for that. Examples include Blade Runner, which was truly awful, Heat (zzzzzzzzzzzz),  Pulp Fiction, which was good, but not unbelievably wonderful as everyone rants on about and Men in Black which was utter c**p of the highest order (see my review).   The Matrix disappointed me unbelievably. I love the Wachowski's previous film `BOUND' and looked forward to this film on the strength of that, NOT the hype.  I watched it in the summer of its release,  on the same day as `Ten Things I hate about you' and `Cruel Intentions' and I must say that I enjoyed those films far more. I had heard `THE MATRIX' was the best film ever made, a cinematic masterpiece, a wonderful story etc although, I always go into every film with an open mind and make my own mind up (even Burn Hollywood Burn &#150; which yes, was awful anyway!!). The Matrix bored me silly for the first hour or so, it didn't make the slightest bit of sense and reminded me of the pain of sitting through `Bladerunner' years before. What I will say is that it picked up in the second half, mainly due special effects &#150; which I always say, should be only an element of a film, NOT the be all and end all. I do honestly believe that many (not all) people only like this film because its fashionable to do so, although will never admit it. If you want good sci fi action thriller, that was made at a shaving of the cost, watch the superior `PITCH BLACK'. Please be individual and make up your own mind and not follow the crowd."
"A terrible film.  Completely unoriginal.  And what's this fascination with just one special effect which isn't much more exciting than slow motion.  I like action, and I like fancy effects, such movies don't require plot, dialogue, nor acting.  Unfortunately lacks in every single area.  Although I know that hype carries through lots of films, I can't believe the hype blinded so many people into regarding this film as anything but a cheap and nasty B-rated imitation of so many great, visually stimulating, and thought provoking films.  As with previous comments, I recommend Dark City for the original movie plot.  And just about any Bruce Lee film for the Kung Fu. In hindsight though, the popularity of this movie is making me think that the theme in the Matrix could indeed be the truth, except that in reality the &quot;Matrix&quot; is the Hollywood Movie Producers..."
"This movie would be good if the director kept the special effects and then fired all the actors and rewrote the script.  The idea of The Matrix is amazing.  When I realized what the Matrix was, I was interested. Unfortunately, the script didn't allow me to care enough about the rest of the narrative.  If the characters were less cartoon-like and I was made to feel any sympathy towards them, maybe the film would work.  Go see The Matrix for the special effects but don't pay attention to the narrative, or you will be disappointed. (3 out of 10)"
"The directors of &quot;The Matrix&quot; mistake style for dark, depressing sets and gloomy-looking people uttering mumbo-jumbo about &quot;The One&quot;. The film has an imaginative and wonderfully paranoid premise: What if the world we live in is not what we think it is, but an illusion created by malevolent beings. Unfortunately, we are subjected to stupid training segments for Reeves by the resistance (an ill-concieved concept all in its own), complete with an inane kickboxing sequence, in which the combatants fly through the air, impressing the half-wits in the audience, while we with IQ's over 50 just sit and yawn. The special  effects are more laughable than spectacular. Seeing a bullet fly by some guy in slow motion is certainly not amazing. The movie could have been so much better if it had had a better script, and omitted every scene &quot;outside reality&quot; I guess. All in all, this is science fiction for cavemen."
"If you ask anyone what they thought about the Matrix, chances are most will say they loved it. Some may even say it's the best movie ever. I, on the other hand, was disappointed with this film. Sure the visuals were cool, and it had a great action sequence at the end, but I didn't buy it, here's why:  1.) I find it hard to root for our heroes. To be honest, I'd rather stay in the matrix, enjoying my life, and not knowing that it is all a fantasy. Why you ask? Let's say you just got married, won the lottery, or just plain having a great time. Then you're pulled out of the world you know only to find a post apocalyptic world ruled by machines. Where would you rather be? With your loved ones, or running from computers.  2.) A better lead could have been used. I don't like Keanu reeves movies. I just don't think he's much of an actor in any movie he's in. This one is no exception.  3.) It falls into routine sometimes. Okay, there's a traitor among our heroes and he starts killing some off one by one. When he has our remaining heroes cornored, we find that one of the one's he's killed didn't die. Therefore he kills our traitor. That scene is as played out as the &quot;villian falling off a building to his death&quot; scene.   The Matrix could have been a lot better, maybe the sequels will work on this. My grade is 5."
"&quot;Boring&quot; and &quot;who cares&quot; about sums up my feelings of this movie. Boring-I slept through some of it and I was awakened by the buzz of audience chatter through out the movie.  Everyone talks about it being derivative-Really- let me count the ways- Terminator II which I liked a lot- These guys must have seen Disney movies a hundred times each i.e. Alice, Cinderella, sleeping beauty, plus a lot of Roadrunner cartoons- and a lot of people are mentioning a Gap commercial! give me a break-please- Bombarding the senses does not make a great movie.  Who cares-There was no characters I cared about or even knew anything about- no plot-no story-no nothing- an extremely clever cartoon-only- that's all folks."
"Why does everyone love these movies?  They are junk.  The story is none existent and full of rhetorical nonsense that's randomly placed and stolen from philosophers, the acting is pathetic, and I still believe the only reason people like this movie is because they are hypnotized by its &quot;dazzling&quot; special effects.  People consider these ground-breaking special effects...no.  Star Wars was ground-breaking, The Matrix is just people fighting for no reason other than to show off their &quot;great&quot; CGI.  I sure hope they don't decide to make a 4th. 3/10 stars."
I simply did not enjoy this film. The plot was so ridiculous that I left the theater with a bad taste. The action sequences well done but this movie was too long and unbelievable and I just got tired. The acting is horrible. I can't believe this thing is on top 250.
"I saw this movie in the theater back in 1999. It had its moments, but not many. To start, the acting is terrible. Keanu Reeves has the emotive ability of a toaster, and Carrie Ann Moss is about as sympathetic as that sexy sidekick babe in a video game. Lawrence Fishburne comes off a bit better, but his dialogue is the most pretentious, ridiculous garbage I've ever heard. I imagine the characters in this film spend about six hours out of every day designing the leather bondage costumes they'll wear next time they're in the Matrix.  For the first half of the movie, it seems to be interested in questioning reality, which, as the title to my review suggests, was already done more topically in previous films. &quot;The Matrix&quot; is astounded by what it perceives as its own brilliance, but for those of us who have thought of its ideas before, there are few surprises. Some people I know were blown away when Neo discovers the truth behind his reality, but I was waiting for something interesting to happen.  &quot;The Matrix&quot; has been praised for its originality, but it suffers from two traditional and clich&eacute;d movie formulas. First, Neo is the Chosen One (notice that &quot;neo&quot; is an anagram of &quot;one.&quot; Was this supposed to be suspenseful?) who is destined to save the human race, bring balance to the Force, etc. He dies and comes back to life, like Jesus. Of course, to begin with he was just a pasty hacker in a crummy apartment and an anonymous office job, giving hope to all the spotty teenage geeks in the audience that they too might become the Messiah one day.  The second fault is the movie's reliance on action. Instead of coming up with interesting and exciting ways for two people to fight each other in virtual reality, Neo and Co. whip out their guns and start shooting. The techno music begins, and the audience is treated to several slow-motion kicks and scenes of people dodging bullets. I'm not sure how they manage all this, because nobody ever takes off their sunglasses to see properly. If the villains of the movie really were programs in the Matrix, shouldn't they be able to manipulate it without having to resort to kung fu? Anyway, I didn't like this movie. &quot;Dark City&quot; is a better, more original version of the same premise, without the Chosen One nonsense or the martial arts."
"This has to be the most overrated movie in sci-fi history.  It is way too long and the acting is stiff, especially Keanu &quot;get me a new facial expression&quot; Reeves.  Who cares about the special effects when the story is incoherent and uninteresting?  I certanly don't.  It disturbs me that many people consider this not only a great movie, but a classic!!!!  Did these people see the same movie I did.  I saw a dumb action movie with delusions of grandeur.  I say watch Star Wars again and see what real storytelling is all about."
"This is one of those movies who relies on two-thirds special F/X, mixed with one-third references to classical literature and Judeo-Christian mythology, with near zero coherence.  Unfortunately, this is almost always nearly enough to dupe the public, which is by and large amazingly stupid and take any sprinkling of metaphysical rumination as the work of a genius, as long as it has enough explosions and ickiness mixed in.  The Matrix stars Keanu Reeves as a Block of Wood, or the other way around, being equally valid. Keanu Reeves, as Neo, or Jesus Christ, Techno-Savior, with Trinity, Mary aka &quot;the Virgin&quot;/Mary Magdalene aka &quot;the whore.&quot;  (Maybe someone had a bit of Freud going on, mother is the saint, but also the whore?  Same first name, you notice.)  Also, the Holy Black Man, Morpheus, who may or may not represent God or the Holy Ghost, and a generic Judas, who seeks wealth/power through the destruction of Keanu/Christ.  So basically, all that has been done is take the amendment to the Bible (the New and Improved Testament), slap on a lacquer of nihilism, technology, and explosions, no acting ability from the majority of the cast, a handful of plot holes, a reference to &quot;Alice in Wonderland,&quot; and you have &quot;The Matrix,&quot; the movie that succeeded mainly because it's on the same level as the general public, which is pretty sad.  However, there is a positive side to this entire SFX debacle.  Hugu Weaving, who just somehow manages to be so sexy and cool, especially in his outfit."
"This is unbearable nonsense combined with irritating action scenes. The film is a continuous insult to the audience&#x27;s intelligence. We see it makes no sense, but the film insists that YOU are just being stupid for not seeing the sense in it. And then it proceeds to throw even more nonsense at you until you give up trying to make sense out of it. But here&#x27;s the problem: if I give up caring, why am I watching? Well, some get up and leave the theater. Others wait for the action scenes and the CGI display. Then again, these scenes make no sense either. As time goes by they become longer and longer. Endless fist fighting in scenes where everyone seems almost indestructible. Why do I care that a character is being thrown at the wall if I know it won&#x27;t hurt him? And why do they use fists? Why not detonate a bomb? Who knows... And who cares?  The sequels, however, get even worse. Now that the novelty has worn off, they give you more of the same old nonsense, but they turn up the volume to 11. More fight scenes, more CGI, more nonsense... They keep introducing new characters in order to maintain the illusion that there is a plot here. But there is no plot. These are silly diversions. And can anyone endure the pseudo-philosophical talk? It&#x27;s unbearable.   But let&#x27;s get to the political message. No, I&#x27;m kidding. I&#x27;m not going there. But if you haven&#x27;t understood it, what&#x27;s the point of me telling you anything?  I will say though, that I do not wish to be a part of the kind of humanity the film depicts, even if we never get to fight evil machines. There are worse things than machines in this world."
"I mean really, how can this drivel make it into the all time greatest top-40. I baffles me, stupefies me, that so many people really like this movie. Keanus acting was so terrible I felt like my mind was going to explode, while all the other actors moved about in such a pretentious solemn stupor that I just couldn't care for the characters they were supposed to represent. Excessive use of sunglasses, trench-coats and &quot;revolutionary&quot; stop motion action sequences just added to the pointlessness of the film. When the plot got so confused and muddled two thirds of the way through, the only solution is to bring out the big guns and have a mass gory bloody shoot-out, which completely offsets the amateurish philosophical babble at the start.  Like many others on this board that gave it a one, I tried to see the film a few more times to &quot;get it&quot; or whatever. No, sorry. This film stinks. There are so many better &quot;alternate universe&quot; films out there."
"The Matrix is just another sci-fi film that offers nothing special to the genre. The only reason everybody dropped their jaws and praised this film was because of the great special effects and fight scenes. Believe me there is a lot more to a film than just it's special effects.  The script was mind numbing at times, especially with the whole &quot;We're not in Kansas anymore&quot; bull crap line, and the acting was just a notch above awful. The only person that even resembled an actor was Laurence Fishburne. Keanu Reeves is his usual self.  All in all a pretty terrible movie and everyone's love for it made it even worse.  If you are looking for a good sci-fi flick go out and get &quot;Planet of the Apes&quot;, &quot;A Clockwork Orange&quot;, or any one of the Star Wars films. If you are looking for a good 90's sci-fi flick go get 12 Monkeys cause that has a lot more than this, like a script and a plot that is more than paper thin."
"The Matrix is the first installment of a &quot;trilogy&quot; of sci-fi movies. In fact, it's not really a trilogy, in an organic sense, it's just a movie and its sequels.  Anyway, &quot;The Matrix&quot; is a film with good premises, but bad developments. Although most of the ideas of the film were taken from sci-fi writers of the 60's and philosophers of the past (the idea that we exist as a thought, or a dream, goes back to Plato at least), the script did a good job in putting these ideas together in a modern plot (at least as for year 2000). The oniric influence of recent sci-fi comic books on the film is visible throughout and is what makes the visual appeal of the film.  Unfortunately, what could have been a really good movie has been turned by the W. brothers into an average action flick targetted at 15 year-old boys, among which must belong the guys who wrote this flick is the &quot;best movie&quot; they've seen. There is almost no acting, and the heros wearing sunglasses all the time is a good way to avoid any sort of emotion to show on their faces. This total absence of emotion is one of the reasons why nobody gives a f..k whether or not everyone dies in the sequels.  The W. brothers have a strong tendency to show off : heroes wearing sunglasses and Armani black leather coats designed for yuppies, trendy night-club population, &quot;bullet time&quot; special FX, (ugly) kung fu video game action, heavy metal and techno music during the whole film, etc. All this is supposed to make the film look &quot;kewwwwl&quot;. In opposition to the heros, the agent Smith wears a dark working suit : he is not cool (although he also wears sunglasses, but that's because he is a spy agent).  But what really turns me off is the pretense of the religioso-philosophico-technobabble which hardly hides the vacuity of the characters and the serious weaknesses of the script. There are so many other films which say much more with less, that this film looks highly overblown in comparison.  I'm not even trying to elaborate on the sequels, which, instead of correcting these problems, show them in their full splendor.  In a word, this flick is highly overrated. But hey, who cares ? The &quot;trilogy&quot; has ripped off enough spectators to make the Warner happy."
"The fact that this movie is #33 on the IMDB lists, and that millions of people think of it as incredibly deep and philosophical speaks volumes about the dumbing down of our culture. The more powerful our computers and gadgetry become, the less deep our thinking, and a piece of recycled tinsel like this is considered great art.  Maybe we really are living in the Matrix. The only people who could possibly think of this as original are those who have watched nothing but MTV and played all the latest first person shooters and who dismiss any film over 5 years old as garbage.  Ohhh!  Neo has parallels with Christ!  What a wild and unheard of concept!  Computers taking over the world?  Well, the Terminator DID say &quot;I'll be back!&quot; I had a hard time staying awake for this movie.  I was really disappointed, because my friend had built this piece of dung up to be a masterpiece. The sequels are coming soon, but I predict they will flop, because Keanu Reeves is in his late 30s now, and considered an &quot;old man&quot; by the target audience for these films."
"If you have a DVD player you should definately have this film. Not only does it have some of the best sound I've heard on a DVD, it has a great picture. This is one of the reasons to buy a DVD player, the other being Saving Private Ryan."
"It was truly bizarre seeing millions of stupid people who literally disliked intellectual pursuits suddenly become enlightened geniuses practically overnight...  This film had an immense effect on the population and it should be remembered for that, not for being a good film, which it is not.  The plot: Let me see... Have you ever heard of a thing called history? Yes, it is a bunch of things that have already happened ,things in history are already &#x22;old hat&#x22;. This film takes one of the most basic ideas from history, the idea that what we perceive as reality might not actually be what we think it is. Yeah, that&#x27;s deep, right? Yes, kind of deep but not too deep, we don&#x27;t want to scare anyone off now do we? This film takes this idea and runs with it, it is the whole film, without it it would just be a bunch of bondage enthusiasts running around like weirdos. It takes something that is already a major clich&#xE9; and beats it so hard into the ground that it comes out in China and even they don&#x27;t want it because they practically invented it to begin with! This old, yawn-inducing idea from ancient history is portrayed as cutting edge thought that the Wankoffski brothers came up with because they are mad geniuses and the whole aim of the film is to make the viewer buy more of their films by making the viewer feel like an intellectual.  The acting: Have you ever seen what happens when people pat each other on the back so much that nobody stops to say &#x22;Hey! Wait a minute, this is ridiculous!&#x22;? Well that is what Hollywood is missing, that guy to tell people where the line is drawn. This film is ridiculous, along with the boring old &#x22;deep&#x22; plot (with aliens!!!) the actors are like a bunch of coke-heads running around practically ejaculating on each other the whole time. It is scary stuff but it is what millions of people expect to see. Are these millions of people intelligent, tasteful people? No, they are not but they are who this film is for. The grunts, the social whores, the mind numbing dinner guest who only talks about cars, the McDonald&#x27;s employee who HASN&#x27;T got a college education... Nobody else could take this acting seriously.  The special effects: Wow, when this film came out the effects were amazing and even though it is void of any merit outside of the effects, they should be remembered for being very impressive. It&#x27;s just a shame that there wasn&#x27;t a single scene where these effects weren&#x27;t rammed down your throat, making you choke on them. This could have been to distract the feeble-minded from the other points above.  Well, there&#x27;s my &#x22;review&#x22;, I loathe this film and I loathe even more the pseudo-intellectuals it created out of millions of complete and utter morons. How so many people can have so little to say and to say it so loudly is just staggering... I give it 3/10."
"(sorry, my English is not the better I know...)  No! Matrix isn't a good film and certainly not the best of its year. In my opinion, the movie has a single interest: its special effects! But when you have seen the best ones of them more than one hundred times before seeing the movie in the traders broadcasted 24h/24 at TV... The actors will not remain in my memory too; and the characters are all but deep (special award to Trinity, ridiculous).  The scenario can seem original to those who don't know anything about science fiction.  The others will recognize topics taken from different films ;  the main idea of the movie, the matrix, is close to the usual topics from novels of Philip K Dick too (just read &quot;The three stigmatas of Palmer Eldritch&quot;! for example).  Shortly, the scenario is not so strong as so many people are telling us, and if the initial idea is powerful, the screenwriters have probably rest after.  My conclusion: if you like special effects, or if you don't know anything in Science Fiction, you can watch Matrix Else, watch Blade Runner, Existenz ... or even Star Wars."
"1st watched 11/21/1999 - 4 out of 10(Dir-The Wachowski brothers): Gimmic movie that bores you because of it's overbearing unlikeliness to real life.Yeah, I know that's what it's supposed to be, but if all you're going to do is put a non-feeling action movie in a different setting I'm not interested.This is what is done here."
"A film with the sort of depth only Keanu Reeves could capture.  Really nifty eye-candy; really weak script.  Like Independence Day with LESS substance. ..if that's possible.  Anyway, in the era of &quot;high-concept&quot; films, can't someone who can write dialogue actually get to come in and make it so you don't cringe at the spoken words in between Industrial Light &amp; Magic effects?"
"The movie doesn't get any better than the scenes in the preview and those aren't that good if the first place.  One of the most overrated movies in a long time, and that includes both totally overrated Austin Powers movies.  Keanu still can't act and putting him in a role where he is supposed to be smart is an absolute joke.  Watch Dark City, it is a much better film."
"Went to see this with my girlfriend and we both spent the last hour just waiting for it to be over.  If I wanted to see pretty effects, I'd watch a PC, I go the cinema to see films.  Some half-a**ed ideas but thats all they were, half-a**ed.  Dialogue was sometimes funnily bad but mostly just excruciating.  I do not understand why this film has the status it does - it says very little for our culture that something so shallow and stupid can be held up as being somehow sublime."
"If you saw the previews, you saw the movie.  I was not impressed at all by this film.  It can't compare to Dark City which was a much better film.  Keannu still can't act to save his life.  The ending was lame.  &quot; True Love&quot; bringing back Keannu from the dead?  Pure Garbage.  A serious waste of money in making this film."
"The concept is original, but I was amazed at how unintentionally hilarious most of this film is. All those times characters kept reverentially referring to blank, uninspiring Keanu Reeves as &quot;the one&quot;; all the over the top martial arts posing and meaningless, new-agey babble - this is just an under-ventilated, overblown hodgepodge of a few good ideas hopelessly overpowered by a dizzying number of brainless cliches.  Once again, the MTV generation mistakes a lot of noise and flashy editing for good filmmaking. If it wasn't for the clever special effects, this would be MSTK3 fodder all the way."
"I'm appalled to see that this movie has such a high rating! I saw this movie a few weeks ago and I'm STILL confused. Possibly one of the most unbelievable and stupid movies of our time. The whole plot was beyond comprehension and not very well organized to say the least. The only way to tell what world they were in was Keanu's hair. Yeah, that's creative. I would rather eat nails than see this horrid excuse for a movie again."
"There have been, in the past, films from the science fiction genre that were brilliant &amp; innovative, i.e. 2001 or Blade Runner. The Matrix, however, is more of an action flick than anything else.  While it starts with an interesting storyline premise, the story and character development start to disappear about 30 minutes into the movie in favor of the more visually-appealing action scenes. While the eye candy is technically very well done, the actual content of the film slides into the background and eventually fades completely from sight. The one exception to this is Keanu Reeves' glaringly bad portrayal of the hero. His one-liner delivery and annoying poses made me groan in disgust several times. I would think that by now American audiences would have shunned him like the no-talent hack he is. Other performances range from pretty good (Hugo Weaving) to so-so (Carrie-Anne Moss) generally, but Laurence Fishburne's respectable ability is squandered in a role that is not worthy of him.  In summary, if you like eye candy -and even I sometimes do- you may be able to enjoy The Matrix, if you completely ignore the main character. But if you're a sci-fi fan waiting for an intelligent, watchable film, you will just have to keep waiting."
"While watching the Matrix an image suddenly came to my mind. I pictured a man, late 50's wearing a smart suit &amp; puffing on a big fat cigar. He sits at the end of a table addressing a number of similar persons who all listen tentatively to every word which the man says. The man takes a big puff on his cigar &amp; leans forward &amp; says &quot;what we need is something for the kids&quot;.  Watching the Matrix you suddenly realise that it is probably the most precisely made film since the Studio System was in force, every aspect is made to appeal to a young (15-30 yr old) audience, &amp; market forces have been well taken into account. The lighting is neo-gothic similar to that found in Seven &amp; The Crow, The camerawork is so John Woo I'm surprised he did'nt sue for plagerism. &amp; it's a story about the internet, &amp; hey, the kids 'dig' the internet, don't they? add a metal/big beat soundtrack &amp; hey presto, a film the kids will love  The Directors have in fact taken so much time over including enough cool effects (as well as advertising Nokia phones) that they have seemed to have not worried themselves over simple features such as plot, amount of holes left in it are worrying, for instance why are the rebels (I use Rebels in want of a better word) stationed in a space ship? why do we never see Zion? &amp; also how come they can defy gravity yet they are unable to jump off buildings/fly etc etc?  The acting is also bottom rate, in fact it seems that the Directors realised that Keanu can't act, so did.nt bother asking him to. However Laurence Fishburn &amp; Hugo Weaving are both good actors yet little is asked of them. Carrie-Ann Moss as Trinity is poor, although her charcter is supposed to be deeply in love with Neo (played by Reeves, also do you notice Neo, anagram for....I won't spoil it for those who have'nt seen the film yet) the lack of chemistry between the two characters is so un-reveling that the situation has to be spelt out by a third party. However it should be acted that the Script is one of the worst I've seen, full of the Cliches &amp; Remarks which movie executives think are cool &amp; funny yet often fall flat, indeed most of the script is so cringe worthy &amp; predictable that only someone who has'nt seen a Big Budget Shoot-em-up in the last 10 years would be surprised. In fact many people have commented on how the film tries to tackle a new imaginative ide, however all I thought was that it took an idea from 19th century literature in man against Machine &amp; put a few philisophical theories in tow, add technology &amp; hey presto. That's not imagination, that's reading books.  However the film does offer some pleasures, for instance the Kung Fu sequence between Neo &amp; Morphius (Fishburn) is the most camp fight sequence since Jacky Chan became a star although campness is'nt something I think the Directors aimed for, Indeed the clothes (lots of leather) is realitively camp once again yet you get the feeling that the Directors thought that their dress sense was 'cool'. However, apart from this, the film falls apart falls apart, Indeed some of it seems too long, with the fight sequences &amp; gun battles often being too long, in fact over emphasise in a Tarantinoloveofgunsandshootingthingsisreallycool way. In fact the only thing that amazed me about the sequences was how it was shot, the amount of flying debris must have injured two or three cameramen in the process.  On the whole The Matrix is dumb, unimaginative, &amp; poorly made &amp; shows why Hollywood has suffered against an independent film industry able to produce much better &amp; imaginative films than Hollywood. Seven &amp; The Usual Suspects are far better films &amp; even though the love affair with guns is similar to John Woo, at least his films (at least earlier films) had a bit of characterisation, Indeed, it seems that the directors believe that the main appeal of Tarantino lies in the gun fights, not in the far better developed realtionships between the characters which I find interesting. The Matrix, what a Turkey, makes Godzilla look a not bad film"
"It's hard to believe that people say they like this better than Star Wars. The chic, flip cyberpunk postmodernism will wear thin in a year, mark my words. This is not a timeless movie."
I'm afraid I fell for the hype on this one.  Proof yet again that a film cannot survive on special effects and flashy direction alone The Matrix died within an hour.  The scenes that relied on neither of these (ie the scenes where the characters had to TALK to each other) were very boring and exposed the film's complete lack of emotional core.  The characters are shallow and artificial and you don't care what happens to any of them.  Reeves' acting is as bad as ever.  It clearly has pretensions to being an 'intelligent' movie - lots of scientific and philosophical references in the script but it's just name dropping (or idea dropping). A miserable experience.
"Walking out of this movie, I felt giddy and excited.  It was a fun flick with impressive special effects that didn't seem entirely tacked on.  But the more I thought about it, the more I felt cheated and manipulated. The plot was fairly decent... for the first half of the film.  Then it pulls out and lets the special effects take over.  I know the purpose of film is to manipulate emotions, but being stroked into thinking a movie is great because it looked pretty is just insulting.  I recommend seeing it at least once, especially on a big screen, but not because it's the great sci-fi film everyone's touting it to be--because it's a good two hours of mindless entertainment with some decent loud music and entrancing special effects."
"This movie had a good plot and could have been a good move, done right.  However, it went too far in terms of violence.  In a day where tragedies like the one in Littleton Colorado, we need to reconsider the violence in our entertainment.  This is definitely not a movie to let children see."
"OK, the special effects in this movie were incredible at times. However, they could not make up for the poor acting, poor writing (&quot;Dorothy...were not in Kansas anymore...&quot;)and overdone characters. My friend and I left before it was over, not able to stomach it anymore. The concept of altered realty/art. intelligence was thought provoking, but the movie was &quot;ruined&quot; by the silly, overdone characters and bland script. What is up with the goofy sunglassess? Why can't these humans, who supposedly have incredible technology and intelligence, at least illuminate/properly light their environment? Why is everything so dank and gloomy? Finally, we found the secondary line of characters to be downright annoying and cartoon-like. If you love special effects, go see this movie. If not, I wouldn't bother."
I liked this movie.  The cgi was mindblowing.  Some of the best and most realistic I've ever seen.  The plot was a little typical.  I mean the Men In Black have been used to death.
"Well, what's the big deal? Dragon Ball-like special effects? The emancipation of selfishness as the greatest &quot;virtue&quot;? C&acute;mon, you don't learn anything from this movie. It's bubble gum for the eyes: useless. The only interesting idea is that about that reality is not what we think. Well, I liked the quid and spider-like robots. But, the story? Bah: nobody helps nobody in this movie (above all, that super-egocentric &quot;Neo&quot; character). And, oh, yes, it's TOO violent, much, much more than what it needed (bullet showers and destroyed buildings were what this pacific world was needing, isn't it?). If you think you are the center of the world, you will love The Matrix. I didn't.  If you want a really good sci-fi movie, go for 12 Monkeys.  2/10"
"Even as far as Hollywood films go, this plot is for the birds. Yeah yeah, I know.. it's Sci-Fi, but it still amazes me the way some people drool and applaud rancid pablum like this. All they need is some over-rated FX, one over-rated actor, and the dumbest storyline of all time, and you have people lining up at the door, barking for more. There is good Sci-Fi, and there is bad Sci-Fi. This film definitely falls into the latter. For all of you yahoo's eagerly awaiting the sequel, try something new, read a book. (If you can read)"
"First things first: I didn't like this movie. I didn't enjoy this movie. They wasted money to bring you great special effects and put them in with a bad plot and bad movie. Special Effects were good, I'll give it that. But what was the point? Where was the plot? And another thing, I don't like Keanau Reeves. He cannot act...at all. And how did Laurence Fishborne end up in a bad movie. He's a great actor. This was just a waste of his talent. So call me mean-spirited, but PLEASE don't call me when the next two Martix's come out."
"I hate to be completely negative about a film, but this was truly, truly, truly awful.  Remember how Bound looked like the Coen Brothers had cross-bred with David Lynch and some how lost their film making talent on the way? Well, this is like James Cameron, David Fincher and John Woo mixed in a blender with The Terminator, an old Doctor Who story about people on trial in a computer generated world (which was called The Matrix) and some really bad ideas.  Where can we start? The plot is a mess, the acting is terrible all round, the directing is plagiarized beyond belief, it lacks any new ideas, the atmosphere is about as enjoyable as the pause following a doctor telling a patient they've got a terminal disease and - the clincher, because you can get away with most of those things - it is truly boring. At no point did I actually believe Keanu Reeves was in any real danger.  As for Keanu Reeves new found (according to some) 'acting' skill, the only reason he looks good is because the rest of the cast is so bad you could make coffee tables out of them.  This is quick fix blasting action for the idiot generation. To say that the two people next to me fell asleep about half way through says it all. I just wish I could have joined them, and missed out on the terrible, macho ending."
"Anyone over 15 (either chronologically or mentally) should find this film a grave disappointment.  Endless chase scenes, destruction, murder, and mayhem.  The plot makes no sense at all.  The actors are wholly wooden. Two stars--for the special effects people."
"The only thing that attracted me were the fighting scenes and the special effects, the rest all sucked.  Horrible acting by Keanu Reeves, so so by the others.  The most cheesy cliche dialogue I have seen in a long time.  I just couldn't stop laughing, when lines like: &quot;Never send a human to do a machine's job&quot; appeared on the screen.  And the plot, although it looks deep, I just couldn't relate with it."
"That such a derivative and badly-done movie is the most popular film in the United States at the moment is saddening. The inevitable CGI FX (for what it's worth, better than any seen before) coupled with awful acting on Reeves' part and a plot structure that allows for about an hour and a half of exposition all add up to... one over-hyped blockbuster. And what's that romantic interest all about? Accck! I'm voting 1 on this one out of spite. Please have mercy, Keanu! The most edifying thing about The Matrix is the main characters' clothing."
"&quot;whoa&quot;, as Keanu would say. However, the amazing special effects could not make up for the predictable, slow moving plot and confusing story line. I also found the characters to be quite annoying, with their dorky sunglasses, silly lines and overdone costumes. And if they know how to program advanced artificial intelligence, why can't they figure out how to &quot;brighten up&quot; their dark, sombre atmosphere? If you're really into fx, go see it on the big screen. If not, wait for the video."
"Plotless, lets-see-how-many-weapons-transports-characters-we-can-make-look-like-insect s limit to creativity. About 1.5 hours too long. Clever, intriguing dialogue something like:  He: I must bring back Morpheus She: No. You can't go. He: I'm going. She: OK. I'm coming with you. He: No you're not. She: Yes I am. He. OK. Let's go. We need lots of guns.  Has everyone seen Life is Beautiful, The Imposters, Last Night, Night on Earth?"
"The Matrix is terrible. A complete abomination. And the sequels are even worse. The only worse movie series is The Planet of the Apes. Your money would be much better spent buying a homeless person lunch.  Granted it seems mildly clever at first, but it is actually an underdeveloped story with a completely unsatisfactory resolution. Any comparison to Star Wars or the Lord of the Rings trilogy would an insult the clear superiority of Lucas or Jackson as both film makers and story tellers.   I hope the people that profited so greatly from this film can find a way to do something with that money that is socially responsible. Having said all of that, acting was actually OK, though.   And the only part of the story that makes the least bit of sense is that technology and artificial &quot;intelligence&quot; can be dangerous instead of helpful if abused."
"Keanu Reeves.  What the hell are you doing, continuing to act.  GO AWAY, YOU HAVE NO TALENT.  The Matrix has got to be one of the worst film of today.  Why do we need all these special effects, it's just not needed.  If somebody gets shot at, you don't need to see anything in slow motion.  Or if they are about to jump across a large gap, do i need the action to stop just so i can study their long jump technique, i don't think so.  Answering the phone to transport themselves to another place.  OH PLEASE.  I know i am in the minority but one day this film WILL be forgoten about because basically it's toss.  Keanu - retire now and go and haunt someone else for a change."
"A few weeks ago I took my Matrix DVD out of my collection and, because I was bored, decided to ring up my mate and tell him that either he takes it off me or I burn it. I had the matches ready and everything, and would have conducted a fascinating experiment into the effect of touching a DVD with a naked flame had he not agreed to let me give it to him. I kid you not.  This film is the worst waste of twenty quid I have ever bought. The psuedo-intelectual claptrap (&quot;Hey, what if the world isn't real after all&quot;???? Yawn, like I didn't already think of that when I was about five years old) is used to cover the fact that the main characters and large chunks of the plot were obviously, ahem, &quot;influenced by&quot; William Gibson's classic pulp-sci-fi tale 'Neuromancer', ie. they are largely identical (including the role of each character within the narrative) but have had their names or skin colour changed.   The visuals are quite pretty but again are totally lacking in innovation except for the 'Bullet Time' gimmick, which is fun to watch but not as impressive as had been made out. At least it wasn't over-used. Then we move onto the acting: Fishburne is fine, as is Moss, but Keanu drags the film into new depths of rubbishness with his trademark lack of emotion or even the slightest indication of sentience, ruining some lines that should sound great. Finally, the action sequences are well-choreographed but somehow seem flat, as if the pacing is a little off.  I won't be going to see the sequels."
"Of all the feelings that went through me as I watched the Matrix, the overwhelming emotion was disgust. Can anyone pick a contemporary movie with so many crude references to christianity? Morpheus as John the baptist; Trinity as an interesting (though the name &quot;Trinity&quot; should have been a tip-off for even the most doltish viewer) Mary Magdala; Keanu Reeves as (gasp!) Christ. Not only is the acting putrid but the film relies mostly on special effects and this ridiculous plotline. If the viewer wants to see action, rent an old John Woo movie made in Hong Kong (The Killer and Hard Boiled spring to mind). If you want a movie with cool effects, catch The Bride had White Hair. Skip this drivel unless you have had a lobotomy recently. If that were the case, I scarcely believe you would be reading this."
"I have sat through the Matrix and it&#39;s sequels several times, and I still don&#39;t see what people think is so great about these movies..especially when I hear or read people talking about the &#39;philosopy&#39; (of these movies).   The only underlying &#39;philosophy&#39; or &#39;message&#39; that seems to exist in these movies is that any type of conflict can only be ultimately resolved through violence - Neo always ends up in one of his bizarro kung fu fight with Smith, suggesting that good and evil are universal constants and that they will only ultimately conflict. It&#39;s a premise that only exists in storytelling, and it&#39;s a pretty timeworn metaphor. The Matrix is just professional wrestling in high gloss. The &#39;philosophy&#39; is just psycho-babble gobbldegook meant to confuse, and (I guess) when certain members of the audience are confused, they seem to think they must be in the presence of something beyond their ability to comprehend, and so it must be &#39;philosophy&#39;. and therefore &#39;profound&#39;...kind of like aboriginal tribesmen seeing an airplane and thinking it&#39;s amazing, something more than they can comprehend. They only lack the education...."
"... but it's in my top ten list.  This movie is evidence, at least to me, that good special effects do not a movie make. Even some of the scenes were not that special. The &quot;Kung-Fu&quot; scenes spring instantly to mind. Especially when compared to the works of Bruce Lee and his ilk. I really wish Hollywood would stop using special effects as a crutch for a weak movie... reference also &quot;Mission to Mars&quot; or &quot;Hollow Man.&quot;  As for some of you, just remember: IT'S ONLY A MOVIE. Some people have really latched onto the idea that the plot of this movie has some basis in reality. GROW UP. IT'S A MOVIE, and not a terribly good one."
"perhaps being the last soul on earth to see this film, I honestly cant say I went into it expecting much, and being as much I cant say i'm dissapointed. For all the Brouhaha surrounding this special effects marvel, I fail to see what in fact was so good about it. It was almost all effects, almost to the point of Nausea, something that Keaunu did little to help. His typical &quot;Dewd&quot; performance was laughable at best, bordering on the wretched and far from notable. Fishburne was great as usual, but he couldnt save his piece of trash and the other  actors were like a B movie ensemble. Maybe the next film will move up a notch and actually be watchable."
"Another movie that needs special effects every 10 seconds.  Keanu (I can't act) Reeves plays some guy with a automatic weapon who is chased by the bad guys.  I was so bored...the utter audicity of this film.   Who has a shootout with 15 other guys with automatic weapons and not only doesn't get scratched, but kills ALL the other guys.  No plot that hasn't been seen in Terminator or Tron.  The other bad news is there are more of these 'teeny fantasy sfx' films coming and they'll all be as bad as this one."
Keanu Reeves should get a best actor nomination for this film. Anyone who could play this part without giggling deserves a great deal of credit.
"For all the people who gives this movie a 10, I notice they are usually *young* and living the poor attention span world of the video game. They have no clue about substance, and thus they worship &quot;The Matrix.&quot; Unfortunately, substance is what the Matrix lacks. It is no secret why the box office has steadily began to fail since the invention of CGI. It has become too easy to do anything you want in Special Effects, thus *substance* is no longer as attractive. In movies such as Jaws, you could not do anything you wanted. The shark didn&#39;t work. They had to use orange barrels to show where the shark could be on the ocean. Thus *substance,* that is, the plot, had to take over where special effects could not take us.  Unfortunately, the reverse is true of the Matrix. Special effects can take us anywhere now, and unless there is a really good plot, like in the Lord of the Rings (because the plot had been written in a time when splashy special effects were nonexistent) special effects are not enough to hold a story together. Thus, this is why Peter Jackson&#39;s &quot;King Kong&quot; didn&#39;t hold together as well. Find another novel by another good author Peter. Novels have to have substance, and that is what any movie needs, regardless of the quality of special effects.  Another thing that bothered me about the Matrix was the contrived way in which it attempted to immerse us into a paranoid world. In just practical terms, it would take far more energy to run a complete virtual reality world, than *any engergy* that could be derived from a human body. Psst! Next time machines, just get a good waterfall and a hydrolic generator, or even just some wind turbines. Much more efficient, and the wind turbines won&#39;t revolt against you.  Seriously. How much &quot;electricity&quot; aka energy can you derive from a human body? I doubt very seriously the energy output vs. the energy needed to submerge all of your &quot;prisoners&quot; in a virtual reality world, would work. Let&#39;s face it, the &quot;machines&quot; would be left with a huge energy deficit.  So, I&#39;m sorry, I could not get past that little nugget of factual error. The entire premise left me unable to suspend disbelief.  So sorry all those video game lovers who worship this movie. It isn&#39;t &quot;War and Peace,&quot; it isn&#39;t &quot;Lord of the Rings&quot; and it isn&#39;t even &quot;Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?&quot; (aka Blade Runner). It&#39;s just an excuse for guys dressed in black to do cool, splashy, special effects, based on a so ridiculously contrived plot, that obviously the plot wasn&#39;t what really mattered.  Tell me the movie is cool, fine. Tell me it&#39;s the basis for a philosophy course and I&#39;ll tell you, you need to find another college."
"Oh dear..... The amount of people who saw this movie and loved it makes me worry about the state of humanity.  I saw this movie because some of my so called friends were saying how excellent this movie was ( I have seriously questioned my friendships with these people after this disaster!!!) and to say it was rubbish is an understatement.  Keanu Reeves who plays the 'hero' role, is one of the most wooden actor's and in this movie he just plays Ted from Bill and Ted but in leather!! Thats not to say that I do not like Bill and Ted as I enjoyed both of them. But to have Reeves playing him in every film is a bit much.  The story is boring and all the acting is poor. Why did they bother with this movie. If I wanted to watch a truly great sci-fi movie I would watch any of the Star Wars films.  When watching this movie I broke into a cold sweat and started uncontrollably shivering - The film had made me ill. After sitting through it, I had to bleach my DVD player to get rid of the foul stench of rubbish."
"Visually, the Matrix was a stunning movie, and the directors and crew deserve credit for that. The only problem is that I fail to see anything profound and deep in the movie. The plot has nothing new to it; virtual reality has been a staple of science fiction ever since the great William Gibson, not to mention Star Trek, and the same goes for artificial intelligences. If some viewers were unfamiliar with these basic Cyberpunk / sci-fi elements and plots, I am glad they were enlightened, but most of us were not given anything new to think about.  The acting, as far as it merits the verb &quot;acting&quot;, was below par. I'm struck by the numerous IMDB users praising the actors; are you seeing something that isn't there? If you look carefully, Lawrence Fishburne is reciting a very clich&eacute; fairytale to Neo that he doesn't even seem to believe himself. Carrie Ann Moss and Keanu Reeves, as always, hardly move a facial muscle. Emotion is conspicuosly absent.  It was a visually beautiful movie, but that was it. The Matrix is not revolutionary, it is evolutionary. And in view of the plot, it does not deserve to be rated sci-fi; rather action with a small icing of science fiction. Nothing new here.  P.S. As a martial artist, I was rather less than delighted by martial arts scenes created by computer animation. If the actors can't hack it, don't try to make a kung fu movie. Real martial arts are challenging and fun; in my opinion, it would also be far more convincing to have leaping kicks and other stupendous maneuvers actually carried out on a stage, not on a computer."
"If you want a movie that showcases special effects over substance, this is a movie to watch. Of course, some of the innovative special effects of the time have since been over-used in just about every movie that followed this one. Otherwise, the characters and story-line are utterly uninspired and unoriginal. Repeated viewings have been rather painful Keanu Reeves is within his element by playing the utterly clueless protagonist (see Bill &amp; Ted). People have often praised the story for raising such existential questions, but I feel the same question was approached and done much more effectively in movies such as The City of Lost Children and Dark City. The Matrix is just simply an over-rated and bloated piece of crap."
"I actually enjoyed this film the first time I saw it, but then I saw it a second time after listening to all the comments about how brilliant this film must be and how we must all worship it. I've never walked out on a film before, and that even includes Battlefield Earth and Wing Commander, but I walked out in the middle of trying to watch this one again. I've never seen a film that people try so hard to make out to be so much more than it really is. The worst part is the obssessive cult that has formed up around the film, telling us how great and visionary the directors are and how we should all worship them and blah blah blah...  Well gang, like the Region Coding Enhancement scheme, time and people's patience is going to catch up with this dreary film, and the results are going to leave the makers very red-faced. Just about every concept in this film is stolen, poorly executed, or both. I still laugh my guts out when Morpheus tries to tell us how human bodies produce so much energy when they consume at least that much in a day. Any nutritionist worth their salt could tell you that. The division of a digital future between evil robots and kind-hearted human beings was also done far better in Tron. And the sloppy use of the Christ Theme as a plot device doesn't even bear thinking about. When I first saw the film, I had never laughed so hard in my life. When I saw it on DVD, I'd never felt so insulted. Never have I seen a production crew with such over-inflated ideas about their achievements.  The characters are just plain boring, too. Keanu Reeves has all the acting ability of a stuffed toy, and yet he is the most interesting thing in the film. That's a worrying sign. Morpheus was all poses and zero credibility, Agent Smith was just an insult, and Trinity had to be one of the least watchable romantic interests since Teri Hatcher's awful performance in Tomorrow Never Dies. And was this film trying hard for some kind of record in speaking ****? Well, guess what? Their efforts succeeded big-time. Every man and his dog seems to be going on about how much better this film was than the last episode of Star Wars, but it is really more on a level with Star Trek.  Frankly, if this is the future of science fiction films, then I will happily stick with my copy of Plan 9 From Outer Space. At least Ed Wood had sincere intentions of a variety other than ripping off an army of suckers when he made that piece of ****! Zero stars. And don't blame anyone other than yourselves, Matrix fans, because this film is now the celluoid answer to MTV through your efforts."
"Potential high school assassins would find this pretentiously awful film appropriately dour, dream-like, violent, validating of paranoia, techno-babbly, and pseudo-scientifically senseless.  Others with a broader and deeper history of films behind them should be pleased to miss &quot;The Matrix&quot; and never look back.  Its brother team of directors deserve no reward for any technical gimmickry that might momentarily wow an asocial ticket-buyer, because their ignorance (read it &quot;sense of what was hot last week&quot;) and disdain for the human component--for people as the best or worst of us really talk and think (or view and listen) damages even actors who know better, such as Lawrence Fishburn.  His appearance, unlucky for him, signals the utter retreat of the film into a doleful pattern of &quot;Captain Video&quot; dialogue--yes, accidental historical accuracy in self-conscious, robotic enunciation of unintentionally scoff-inspiring paradoxical phrases--punctuated, de rigeur, by spasms of billowing orange explosion (for the eye) and nattering automatic weapons fire (for the ear)."
"It is irritating to myself and anyone who knows small arms weapons that Hollywood consistently adds the sound of clicking or metal to metal contact as the actor/actress raises the weapon to aim and/or discharge it. Most of the weapons that this sound is associated with only make this sound when 'charged' or cocked. This action is accomplished long before raising the weapon for firing and most always cannot be executed as the weapon is raised and certainly not one handed.  In The Matrix it is evident almost every time a weapon is raised by Neo, Trinity or any other character.   Similarly Reloaded and Revolutions contain the same effect.  Yes, it is dramatic however unrealistic.  How gullible does Hollywood think we are ???"
"Extremely silly nonsense about a future where machines have taken over the world and life on earth is a virtual reality controlled by computer programs in some alternate universe. This is one of the worst movies from a major studio, featuring a convoluted and boring plot that&#39;s all over the place and goes on way too long. The slow-motion fight scenes are laughably bad. Reeves looks lost throughout the movie. Fishburne spews clich&eacute;s as some sort of a zen master. The Wachowski Brothers, who showed so much promise with &quot;Bound,&quot; their first feature, not only wrote the terrible script but also dreamed up the lame special effects. This is an utter waste of time."
"Stop freaking me with the Matrix : the actors are bad, the plot is outdated and seen and seen again and the action, well, it's been done before in any HK movie... Tell me about bullet time and other things : well, makes me wanna barf. Useless and not that well done."
"Bad, too bad film. The idea is good, but then the film is an &quot;stars &amp; stripes&quot;  film, without fantasy, only special effects, and bad actors, the usual story, with the good man and the bad man. No news under the sun  Adalberto"
"This is probably the most disappointed I've been about a movie in some time. I don't know what I actually expected, but I was surprised by what I saw. To be perfectly honest, the effects didn't save the movie.  They weren't even as good as I had expected.  Maybe I'm being picky, but eye candy isn't enough when it's unsweetened and bitter tasting."
"We read all the raves and the box office records and since we love sci-fi we went to see the Matrix. The first half of the movie was awful and we found absolutely no reason for it being made except for special effects. The story was somewhere between inane and non-existent. The second half was exciting and continued the non-existent story line. I guess there was a story of sorts but it was stupid. Probably the WORST movie we've seen in many, many years."
"The Matrix is undoubtedly one of the most influenced sci-fi/action films in history.  There's the Western-style quickdraw fight, Oriental Shaolin boxing Bruce Lee made famous, and definite influences of Anime, John Woo, and other big action names and brands. This benefits the intriguing, complicated, and somewhat confusing plot. In overall, 10/10."
"Something sad happened with this film. The Hollywood Academy give it some Oscar (special effects, I think). So young people newcomer to cinema world thought it must be a good picture. They did not know that not all the winning Oscar movies deserve it. It is a deceitful, spurious and incredibly pretentious film. Because one thing is Cinema and another thing are computers. If you want to said something in cinema' way you must use cinematography ways. Cinematography language has got his own implements. It is a very old discovery (more than 100 years old) and it was marching on and growing up with hard work, effort, wisdom and -many times- talent. Never with computers. The film responsible commit in my opinion a unforgivable lack os respect. It seen they does not know authors like Griffith, Chaplin, Stroheim, Sternberg, Welles, Dreyer, Ford, Hawks, Walsh, Curtiz, Lang, Reed, Renoir, Bu&ntilde;uel, Kurosawa, Wilder... All of them (and some more) made films with his own effort. Not with computers. That is why the film is not sci-fi nor comic nor martial arts catalogue. Let me said you this movie is a awful mixture of all that and of course nothing of value. Zero."
"The Matrix is a mess of a movie, and it is all the more disappointing because it had some really good ideas.  I am a big fan of Bound, and of the directors' visual style.  Still, what was promised in the previews did not actually occur until 30 minutes before the end of the film.  The concept is intriguing, if not totally original.  Half way through the film I kept saying to myself, &quot;When this becomes clear, it will be really neat.&quot;  Unfortunately, after it was over, I was still unclear about many things.  I know that a movie like this should be experienced, if not completely understood, but the experience was dark and the style was too late.  Still, I loved the flo-mo effects, and the visual effects were TERRIFIC. Not enough to carry a feature film, though."
"Now this is a stinkass movie. Probably the worst movie I've ever seen. I watched it in the movie theatre and fell asleep three (!) times! It is so incomprehensive, the story sucks, the characters are lousy, the actors are annoying and act poorly, yuck. I know a lot of people really like this movie, but I know at least as many people that really hate this movie.  I would recommend this movie if you're a scifi-guy (or gal). Otherwise, don't bother!"
"Somebody decided to combine the ideas behind Terminator (a computer gone out of control that runs the world) and Tron (a computer world within another world) and combine them into this overrated turkey that has plotholes big enough to drive a truck through.  Keanu Reeves is possibly the worst actor of all time.  The stupid faces he makes in the fight scenes are laughable and he has the worst voice for delivering serious dialogue.  They even managed to steal a scene from Walt Disney in this drivel when Neo is brought back to life by a kiss.  Most fans of this movie say that those who disliked it &quot;didn't get it&quot; and try to make themselves come across as more intelligent by talking about the film's &quot;deeper meaning&quot;.  Well, as someone who also had to painfully analyze this stinker I can say that there is not one original idea within the script.  While they're at it they should find a good lawyer to defend themselves from Robert Heinlein's estate, who should sue since they stole the entire parasite idea from Puppet Masters.  Keanu Reeves should be shot on sight."
"I see posters. TV commercials. Comments. Magazines. Newspapers. Rankings. Awards. Lots of Wow! expressions. Then...I rent the movie (I thank God I've never seen it on theaters) and I say...'Well, it seems that this is THE MOVIE'. Then I press the play button. And get sleep. Bored, slow, extremely bad acted, unbelievable. And incredible bad movie. Maybe a nice story...If somebody tells it good. Seeya, Matrix. I give a '1'. And I think I'm generous. Bye Scar"
"Action movies are the neatest! And this one is probably the best of all! There was a lot of shooting and COOL camera stuff. The cool effects with the bullets were awesome, and the martial arts too. Hi-ya! And the sets were neato too. I think I'm in the Matrix right now; the movie was that convincing. I like that they didn't bother with character development at all because that would have wasted time. Some of my friends liked the philosophical side to this movie. I didn't really care for that though. They kind of threw together some eastern philosophy with a whole lot of Christian imagery and wallah! I don't know though - it seems like that may have been just a device to make the movie seem like more than it is... But how could they make this movie any more rad than it already is? What with all the action and all, and the fast music which helped keep my attention, and Keanu Reeves says &quot;woh.&quot; That's a pretty good line because it's how we all feel sometimes. And I guess, really, all that philosophy stuff was pretty thought provoking..."
"This really bothers me that people actually consider this movie one of the top 50 of all time???   Really, people, think about the plot of this movie and the acting...I am the first to acknowledge that the special effects are unlike no other...but how beyond stupid can a plot be?  I ask that if everyone can really look at what this movie is, and they still enjoy it, more power to you.  I do think that once you look at this movie beyond the special effects, you'll be extremely embarrassed that you at one point said you &quot;liked&quot; this movie."
"Why this is so popular absolutely baffles me. It only beat The Phantom Menace for best special effects because of politics, to show that George Lucas &quot;supposedly&quot; doesn't have so much clout. How anybody can get off on a bunch of skinny dorks in S+M outfits beating each other up with trick photography while techno music constantly plays in the background is beyond me. This is the MTV generations' wet dream, that much is obvious. Comparing it to Blade Runner is trying way too hard. And those of you trying to make something religious out of it, this is all I have to say: get a life and get educated. You just want to draw attention to yourselves. Here's hoping a piano falls on the Wachowski Bros. before the next two films are made.  1/10. You got a problem with it, too damn bad."
"I had never given a movie a 1 at IMDb, until I saw The Matrix. What a terribly bad movie, lousy actors and a hopeless story. I&acute;d given this film a zero, if it was only possible. A complete waste of money, and please Hollywood: Mr Reeves can&acute;t act!!!!"
"My girl and I went to the theatre too see this , what we thougt, fantastic movie. What a waste of time!!!! I should had stayed at home to watch some &quot;Teletubbies&quot; instead. My girl actually fell asleep during the movie, and I just hoped this torture would end as soon as possible. OK, the special effects was rather good. I can give one star for the effects. This is just one of the films that nobody dares to say loud what piece of shit it really is. Wake up people, there is so many much better films out there."
"To me this 'movie' seemed to be a mixture of scenes stolen from good or at least better movies than this one. TERMINATOR 2, MEN IN BLACK, JOHNNY MNEMONIC or THE X-FILES. After pulling out the best scenes from these four, the Wachowskys added the atmosphere of DARK CITY, the music from BLADE and the shooting-scenes from FACE/OFF and voila a new commercial plague pesters the movieworld. Coronation of this Money-machine is the presentation of commercials during the movie(Duracell, Nokia). Finally even a fairy tale is being recycled in the dead-kiss-alive-sequence.  I'm really, really looking forward to parts 2 and 3!"
"I've seen Matrix 3 months ago.While I saw it I wanna get out of the theatre.It looks like Gung- Fu movie like HongKong movie.Keenu Reeves is down and other charactors are absolutely inappropriated.Even though it 's strange from other movies,the content in movie is boring.I felt that I was stolen money from producer."
"OK, here's my basic viewpoint on the wonderful piece of celluloid known as 'The Matrix,' seeing as how it was full of plot holes, and the only things good about it were Laurence Fishburne and the effects.  In all honesty, I hated every single frickin' minute of this flick. It was boring, unimaginative, and really quite contrite. The scripting was terrible, the acting horrible, and for Gods sake, the movie wasn't even a movie, it was a playhouse for new visual effect techniques. Show me one part of this movie that you feel is good, and I'll show you a person who's afraid to make up their own mind on anything good in movies.  While The Matrix was busy making millions of dollars, people skipped out of movies with a SCRIPT and ACTORS such as 'Waking Ned Devine,' an incredibly character driven movie, with real actors, not Bill and Ted rejects. (Don't get me wrong, Laurence Fishburn wasn't in Bill and Ted, and I did like the B&amp;T movies, I just didn't like TED!) This movie was full of eye candy...it's a disappointment that movie goers now a days will shell out $7.50 for a movie full of things you can see on a Playstation...but you don't catch people sitting around the house and paying money to watch some guy play Final Fantasy.  Now go watch a real movie, like 'Brazil.'"
"Great idea, with very little of that idea transferred to the silver screen. Plenty of neat special effects to distract the audience from the flawed and empty re-telling of the age old &quot;what is reality&quot; story. A few interesting bible references, great blue-screening (better than Episode 1 by far), but with stone-like acting from every cast member, everyone ends up looking like part of the machine. If you want to see a movie that really deals with the issue &quot;what is reality&quot; see Darren Aronofsky's &quot;Pi&quot; (1998). If you want to see a bunch of fake kung fu, slapped together on an Avid machine to impress you, then see the Matrix, but most of these reviewers are mistaken (no offense); it's really just filler with a bit of truth. Wake up."
Can't believe this film has so many people so enthused. Most of it is dumb boring cliche-ridden dialogue. I've seen tons of b-flicks on 2 AM cable that had more life than this thing. The &quot;sci-fi&quot; effects are 10th rate derivative of Alien &amp; all its spawns down through even the stupid remake of Lost in Space. Where the hell is all the groovy gothic architecture I read about? The climax is bad John Woo knock-off. So what's it all mean? That today's moviegoers love nothing more that bad remakes of yesterdays movies? Guess so.
"I'm glad to see that someone rated this film as over-rated. I've seen it several times as I like to make sure I'm not acting on first impressions.   I love Sci-fi films and films that offer an odd perspective on things but this film, dear God it's so over-rated it's unreal. Most of the people I know rave about it but I can't stand it.  I've seen half of the sequel and it annoyed me so much I turned it off.  Utter drivel.   I'm sure that some of out there will think I'm insane but hey, who cares."
"The Matrix is a horribly formulaic stew of standard pulp items (conspiracy theories, bands of gallant rebels, babes in tight black leather) with a light dusting of philosophical/religious concepts to make it all seem like serious, meaningful stuff.  It is almost unnecessary to point out that none of the philosophical concepts plays any real role in the plot, which is basically just a sequence of action scenes enhanced by computer graphics. Its fans may talk about savior figures, but this is salvation lite, by means of gunfights and kung fu.  A better bet is Scary Movie: you'll see the same action and maybe even have a chuckle or two, which is more than can be said for The Matrix."
"This may not be the worst movie of all time - but it does not belong anywhere near the TOP-100 list.  People that think highly of this movie are too eager to give the special effects (albeit original) way too much credit towards the actual worth of the movie. If it really was the &quot;story&quot; of the movie that attracted the crowds to the original, the 2nd movie would have done much better.  But since the effects are no longer &quot;special&quot; to a lot folks, it appears a lot of people are saying &quot;NO THANKS&quot; to seeing the sequel.  Which backs up my feelings on the first movie.  The story/acting was ok - but didn't WOW me in the least. Reeves is not a great actor - regardless of how much you adore him."
"the movie's plot, storyline among most other things are some of the worst I've seen in a movie in a long time. I wouldn't pay 10 cents to see it again. the only thing about it that was remotely ok was a few action sequences. Even now those sequences have been surpassed by many other movies.  It certainly wasn't a standard precedent for movies of that nature and the way they were produced or filmed."
The Matrix is one of the most overrated films that I can think of. The film does have good action and some of the most amazing special effects ever put on a film. But the film is also drawn out and confusing. Keanu Reeves is the only one who could play a chacrter as flat as Neo and the rest of the cast expect for Laurence Fishburne and Joe Panotilano all give paper thin performances. I give the action and effects a 10 the plot a 3 which equals about 6.4.
"I could not stop laughing through the whole movie! Keanu Reeves gives his best comedic performance since his appearance in the Paula Abdul video &quot;Rush, Rush.&quot;  The only real problem with the movie is that it was not supposed to be funny. I was not the only one who had this opinion. The person I was with kept laughing at the same time I did. Keanu just doesn't do it for me. Every serious look that he tries still has an air of Bill S. Preston, Esq. (or was he Theodore &quot;Ted&quot; Logan?).  I saw it when it first came out and hated it then. When my friends (mostly college age) kept telling me that it was actually a very good movie, I decided to give it another chance. Nope, I was right the first time. It is much funnier than it is thought provoking."
"Not since &quot;the Six Million Dollar Man&quot; have we seen &quot;super-speed&quot; being represented by slow-motion, and Matrix takes special FX into the Annoying Age with its supposedly cutting-edge &quot;3-D&quot; series-of-photographs-shots. A dull and predictable story and laughably stupid FX. What more could the general public want? Hmn. Five sequels maybe?  1/10 (because &quot;0&quot; wasn't an available choice)"
"Yeah, the effects were good.  But the story was just your basic, run-of-the-mill futuristic action script.  The character development is virtually non-existant, the acting is weak, and their are non plot twists that cannot be spotted a mile ahead.  The only reason this film is praised so much is because of the martial arts sequences and the effects i.e. the famous slow-motion bullet shots.  But the fact remains that this is a poor effort.  There is no outstanding reason to see this movie; there is no great acting.  The story is intriguing to sci-fi fans at first, but later on boils down to cliches and shootouts.  The ending is a cop-out just so more sequels can be milked out.    If you want to see a great futuristic sci-fi film, see The 13th Floor.  You will notice the plot is very similar to that of The Matrix, except it is much more inventful about it, much better executed, and the ending will leave you thinking for months afterwards.  The ending in the Matrix, however, will leave you thinking &quot;What was so great about that?&quot;  The answer, simply and disapointingly, is nothing."
"I cant believe they're making two sequels to this one, why couldnt they just stop with one?? this one had me scratching my head trying to make some sense out of it.. what was Keanu thinking when he signed up for this one?? the only good things about this movie were the special effects and that didnt happen til around the end of the movie.. i was so lost .. i couldnt figure it out at all ... Keanu was the reason i rented this movie, but even today i still cant understand this movie.. it was way too weird for my liking and i cant see what the big fuss is about this picture ... save your money for something better .."
"This movie SUCKED. Okay I have to admit that the stunts and special effects were cool. But the script was stupid and very predictable. And there was typical 1-D shallow performance from Keanu Reeves. And what is up with it being so high on the top 250 list. COME ON PEOPLE you leave Midnight Cowboy and Gone With the Wind out of the top 100, but manage to put this Gap commercial with special effects at #30.  3out of 10 stars."
"this is a pathetic piece of crap that has plagued the pop culture today. I don't know how.  Maybe people like bad acting, cheesy and crappy (also boring) fight scenes, a plot that isn't carried through at all, horrible scripting, and visual efffects that are far from original (check out blade runner if you want good visual effects).  Personally, this film was just ok, but the way it had been over-hyped and everyone saying its the greatest movie ever, it just made me give the film a 1 on a scale of 10.  Keanu Reeves looks like a gimp wearing a cast around his neck, and still can't spout a convincing word of dialouge, in this film.  Lawrence Fishburn gives the worst performance of his career, but he gets praised for it. the wakouski brothers claim themselves as original, but the film easily ripped off John Woo films and Blade Runner.  The worst thing about this is, is that everyone's IQ dropped ten points after watching this load of garbage.  It plays you for an idiot.  It actually tries to make you think that Keanu's not &quot;the one&quot; so it can try to keep some sort of suspense.  But when you start falling asleep through scenes that could have been cut out, it throws in an action sequence not needed just to keep you awake.  This film is bad and it's a shame that i'm one of few who realises it."
"This was one of the worst movies I've ever seen. &gt; Overall, the movie is a grotesque union of bad science fiction and bad philosophy.  The writers decided to trot out that old &quot;what if a mad scientist had your brain in a jar...&quot; nonsense except this time it's a mad computer program and it's your whole body instead of just your brain.  The director's view of Man's nature is one of a cross between a virus infecting the face of the Earth and a battery.  The special effects are well done, but aren't good enough to carry the rest of the film.  My recommendation is &quot;Don't waste your money&quot;, I'm sure sorry I wasted mine."
"Seriously, what the hell were they thinking when making this movie? And what have my friends and most other people been thinking ever since?  Several of my friends had told me to check out the Matrix because it is &quot;such an awesome movie&quot;. Well fair enough. I borrowed a tape from one of my friends and started to watch it. It was pretty obvious to me that there was no real plot in this movie. All it was was some idiot who wanted to show off his new computer techniques and some mediocre acting by some otherwise good actors.  Ever since when having discussed the movie with my friends, they all look at me as if I'm some kind of alien or something. They don't understand that it's possible to have another opinion than theirs. Seriously, I'd rather watch just about anything else than this any time! I'd even go for some kind of stupid reality show (and you don't imagine how much I loathe those!)  This Hollywood bullshit deserves no more than 1!"
"I 've just seen this film for the second time and I can't understand why I have had such sadomasochistic behaviour . However, I think I've understand the way the Machowsky Brothers, I mean Sisters, ... Mr and Miss Machowsky write and produce that ... well, movie shall I say . First, they imagined a pseudo-philosophical, pseudo-smart story with some kind of &quot;oh my god so that's how the world is ruled ! Its so evident ! Well, it isn't&quot; . Then , they had to write a script .Pretty useless (XXX , Godfather III and others made lots of money without it) but can help . it was easier :they just need a &quot;Dictionnary of Philosophy for fools&quot; . Example:letter D : Descartes imagine that all our lives could be an illusion created by a &quot;bad genius&quot; . Good ! letter N : Nietzche : Give up our desire is give up what made us human , etc ... And finally they just need to direct actors . Well, they were tired (can understand) so all the actors play consists in making beautiful but useless moves. Now , I can't wait to see the sequels : will they discover the letter O of the dictionary, will the moves be more useless ?... So many questions I hope I 'll never have the answer ."
I watched it once and for most of that I was thinking &quot;when the hell is this going to end&quot;. I get that it looks good - I am not denying that. But you can only see the slow-motion camera spinny thingy once ore twice before you start thinking &quot;gee - could they not think of anything more interesting? Is this all there is?&quot;.   Over all it was way too long and not that interesting once you got over the somewhat novel special effects. I really don't understand what the hype is about and why everyone is telling me this is a good film.
this movie is sorry it can't be written in words Keanu Reeves is a good actor so why did he do this movie i watched it twice to see if i was missing something overrated garbagethe plot about not being real is fun but the movie is not to see how it done right watch THE 13TH FLOOR it is better and makes more sense 1 OUT 10
"This is a terrible movie and I don't know how it ever got to be so successful.  Its no wonder that all the computer nerds who sit around and rank movies on IMDB would give the Matrix a high score, but if you disregard the hoopla, you will see that its nothing more than a bunch of noise sometimes interrupted by bland lines from Keanu (&quot;am I the One?&quot;).  I hate this movie!!!"
"I was first attracted to The Matrix by the slick trailers and TV spots. However, I did not choose to see it in theaters until after hearing many outstanding recommendations from friends.  I heard such comments as &quot;man, this movie will mess with your mind!&quot;, &quot;I still don't understand it&quot;, &quot;you have to watch it a few times to get it&quot;, and many variations on &quot;the special effects are awesome!&quot;.  I consider myself to be a fan of mind-benders, and the occasional sweet special effect is always welcome in my book.  So I go and see The Matrix.  In my first viewing, I literally fell asleep.  Now, you must be wondering how a person could possibly fall asleep watching such an action packed film.  It was easy.  The action just doesn't do it for me. You might also wonder why I would write a review for a movie I didn't see in it's entirety.  Actually, I rented it on DVD and sat through the whole thing months later.  I have many large complaints with The Matrix.  Let's start with the whole &quot;mind-bender&quot; thing.  A psychological thriller this is not. In fact, the fairly unoriginal concepts behind the story are presented in the first 20 minutes or so, and then pretty much never mentioned again. This movie will not keep anyone thinking unless they are incredibly stupid and can't get past the first 20 minutes.  The special effects and the visuals in general are indeed spectacular.  Good for them.  That doesn't do a whole lot for me when there is no substance to back them up.  The Matrix, as a whole, is an exercise in style over substance.  In all fairness, it is very stylish.  Here's the main problem: the movie does about 20 minutes of posing as a psychological thriller (as the trailers would have you believe), and then drops you off into the realm of sci-fi and video game violence. The characters basically just start fighting, running, and shooting things. It feels every bit as stupid and pointless as the next action movie.  The only saving grace is the fact that it is much prettier than the next action movie.  Once again, eye candy is the key to this movie.  Although it seems to easy, I will rail on Keanu Reeves performance in The Matrix.  Well, actually, the only thing that can be said about it is that it was weak (like all Keanu's performances, I suppose).  Fortunately, it won't distract most viewers from all the cool explosions, gun shots, and camera tricks.  In summation, don't go in expecting an intelligent movie, you'll be disappointed.  However, if you enjoy action, special effects, or sci-fi stuff in general, then I find it hard not to recommend this movie to you. I guess when it comes down to it, special effects and action aren't my thing. I need a little more substance."
"I don't like to compare movies but this time it is necessary. Have you seen DARK CITY? If yes then you must remember the concept of the movie. The concept which the Matrix creators stole and transformed it into something... with no sense (don't think that I've seen the movie only once). Secondly, I keep reading comments about awesome visual effects. Visual effects is my job and believe me... the Matrix effects are just impressive, that's all. From the other side have you noticed any effects in Dark City? No? Probably because the animation in this masterpiece of Alex Proyas is so realistic that you never thought that the whole city is 3D. And making realistic animations is more difficult than creating impressive but easy FX.  As for the scenario of the Matrix (except that it is stolen) I believe that it has so many gaps that not even Aristotle could understand the story. Mentioning examples will take 2 sites so just agree or disagree with me. As for the only advantage of the movie? it has the best digital editing I've ever seen!!!  Conclusion? Films our like foods. No-one has the same taste but as it seemsmost of you like fast foods. For me is the worst film ever made. Is the absolute ZERO!"
"'The benchmark for all sci-fi films to come'? Not likely. This is one of the worst films I have ever seen, and I actually sat through Con Air. The concept of the Matrix itself is interesting, but it has withered in the hands of the Wachowski brothers. This film is nothing more than an exercise in male masturbation: its got guns, kung-fu, a lot of people whispering dramatic things such as 'He is The One...', more guns, a pretty girl in a rubber catsuit (obviously), a few more guns, some blood and guts, and some important sounding techno-speak. It's even got a tacked on romantic subplot at the very end, just to help with the fantasy. But wait...! With all the w***ing, they forgot to make a decent movie. The best thing going for this movie is the soundtrack (which is killer). But that has nothing to do with the producers, directors, or any of the actors. At least Con Air has insane criminals with strange quirks and exploding eyeballs. The Matrix just makes me cringe."
"I am not the biggest fan of action movies, but there have been many that I enjoyed.  The Matrix wasn't one of them.  It is pretty hard to make a boring action movie, but the Matrix was successful.  The only reason I go to action movies is to see someone bust some heads, and watching the same three bad guys that look exactly the same get beat up over and over got really old after the second time.  All that computer stuff looked really neat on the trailers but I felt let down when I saw the movie because I had seen all the &quot;cool&quot; parts already. I just saw Vertical Limit and that was a good action movie.  It used all the action movie cliches but it was exciting."
"Clearly it was just a special effects movie. Although I did love the Special effects, literally drooled over them, it didn't seem to have a plot or any good actors. I definitely wouldn't see it again either. But, I would recommend you see it, if just for the special effects. But I would like to say I was breath taken during the fight scenes, intrigued by the different words, awed at the karate scene, and enjoyed the end fight. A lot of fun, but the special effects don't make a movie, I enjoy a good thick plot also."
"While most of the world seems head over heels for this film, I can't get over the fact that I was bored to tears. The movie seemed really long, and while special effects are nice, a few hours into this thing I was more interested in looking at my watch.  I thought the whole premise of our entire existence being fake was a good one. But, once seeing the movie, I realized that the premise isn't really expanded that much. It's just developed enough to hold together the action scenes. Maybe I would have been more entranced with a better cast. But Keanu Reaves and Lawrence Fishburne don't exactly amount to genius in casting.  Maybe there's some element of this movie I'm just not getting, but if this movie was the only thing on TV, I don't think I would watch."
"I sat down to watch this movie twice, why?  I fell asleep the first time.  Everyone said, &quot;It was so great!&quot;  So, I expected to see a pretty good movie.  It was far from that.  It was perhaps the worst script I had heard in a very long time.  The directing was nothing memorable.  Photography was standard.  But what destroyed the movie was the acting.  Keanu Reeves was dull and totally lifeless.  Even Laurence Fishburne wasn't good(but how could he be good in such a terrible script).  There was no chemistry between any of the characters.  And overall, the movie was boring!  It hardly held my interest...  1.5/10"
"i do not believe that i have ever felt so empty and immoral after finshing a film.  actually this trash doesn't even deserve to be called a film.  films are meant to be special and enjoyable, this was unbearable to sit through. the violence made no point, the acting was terrible, and to me the special effects were the entire storyline and plot.  film makers should concentrate onstoryline, then effects.  If you are looking for good action check out the great escape or the rock, you want sci-fi, then look at any 80's swarzenegger flick or aliens movie.  they are worth watching."
"So, there's this thing called Action Genre, and this other thing called Sci-fi...well, this piece of # doesn't belong in any of those categories.  Sci-fi was going to several changes, filmmakers were looking at pre-StarWars films, the ones who deal with the true nature of mankind, life, and reality (not saying StarWars is bad, actually, IT ROCKS!!), and yes, we did get good and bad films, but at lest most of them were brainy and eye-popping, Gattaca, Dark City, The Cube, Starship Troopers (well, not brainy), 12 Monkeys, EXistenZ...and then came The Matrix and killed what was turning into a kinda golden age for the genre. The Wachowskys didn't do a movie, they just spend a couple hours in a editing room making a big medley of genre flicks, and claiming they had reinvented the genre..which one? no idea...  The Matrix tells the story of this loser, not Keanu, but Thomas Anderson (or is it Paul Anderson...don't really care), a guy who is contacted by this other guy, Morpheus (played by some guy), who tells him that what we called &quot;reality&quot; isn't anything but an elaborate hoax..like the movie.  Let the stolen action sequences begin: The Wachowskys saw a couple of John Woo HK movies and stole what their fight scenes were all about: Slow-Mo, big flowing raincoats, guys handling two guns at once, and a fascination to show every bullet hit like they are part of a choreography based in chaos. Then, they took an ignored but cool scene from Blade (the bad guy dodging a Slow-Mo bullet) and they made it again with a technique invented in 1994..which THEY called Bullet-Time... Then they watched Alex Proyas ignored classic, Dark City and decided to lend some ideas...like every last one of them...actually, I'm too tired to enlighten you people, just watch that flick.   Followed by the amazing Reloaded and the just-as-crappy-as-the-first-one Revolutions  0 out of 10....wait, that jar scene...mr smith...alright, 1 out of 10  PD: How the f##k did they get Yuen Wu-Ping to work in here???"
"This is one of the worst attempts I have seen at film-making. Without the special effects, there would be nothing except a bunch of guys dressed as the Blues Brothers following Keanu Reeves around a blue screen.  But then, without the special effects they wouldn't have used all the slow motion either, and so the film would have been about five minutes long. And believe me, five minutes of the Blues Brothers against a blue backdrop would have been much more entertaining."
"It's ridiculous that a film like this is in the top 250, much less the top 50.  This is a film with not a single redeeming value.  The special effects are really nothing to write home about, the plot has so many holes you could pilot a 747 through them, and Keanu Reeves gives his usual performance; that is, being outacted by the scenery.  I recommend watching this once, to truly appreciate how bad it is."
"Anyone with half of a brain could see right through this mainstream Hollywood garbage.  The effects are not &quot;spectacular&quot; (they are loud, annoying, and overblown) the acting isn't &quot;great&quot; (It sucks).  It's kind of like Bill &amp; Ted's Adventures Through an Alternate Reality.  Most of the &quot;serious dramatic scenes&quot; were laughable.  I am outraged that this is number 38 on the all-time 250!!!  It should be in the bottom 100.  It's talk, talk, talk, with something remotely resembling an action sequence popping up on the screen every 30 minutes.  It looks like a crazed computer ate up a roll of film and spat it back out.  You are WAY, WAY, WAY better off watching the GREAT movies like Citizen Kane or City Lights or Superman: The Movie!!  I give it a 0 out of 10, it's a BOMB!!!  But, I'm sure the over-crazed Matrix fans will have some lame excuses for all the movie's shortcomings."
"What IS it with this film?  Ten minutes of slow motion posing buried in 126 minutes of tedium and hackneyed old SF ideas does not make a groundbreaking masterpiece.  No, I just don't buy the &quot;great effects&quot; line.  If I wanted to look at posters or posable figures, I'd do that.  I prefer action scenes to have, well, action.  Even the clumsy-chicks-on-wires-film (aka Charlie's Angels) has more involving action scenes than this confused rock video.  The acting is solid, but the less said about the plot, the better (no, it's not even remotely original).  And at 136 minutes, this is a loooong grind. Raving fanboys, do me a favour and please describe a scene that's not in the first or last five minutes, and not on either side of one of the infrequent action scenes.  There's just not a lot happening in here."
"Wow. After all that this movie was hyped up, I was greatly disappointed. But what did I expect.  This movie is typical of the garbage Hollywood churns out, and how typical of the blind masses to eat it all up. There are massive plot loopholes one could drive a truck through (Someone please explain to me, when in this &quot;virtual world&quot;, why do they need a phone to get out? That's like saying &quot;Quick, we need to touch a dog to get out of the matrix!)  I have never once in my life seen so many good looking computer geeks. All so stylishly dressed as well, but then again, this is a definite &quot;style over content&quot; movie, with black clothes being so popular, it's no wonder the producer wanted people decked out head to toe in trenchcoats. After all, why bother to write a decent storyline when you can just fake it, put in lots of &quot;great&quot; special effects, trendy costumes, &quot;l33t computer H@xors&quot; and have it sell on these points alone? Sorry, not good enough for me.  This movie is plain bad, from the moment it starts right up to the moment it ends, with all the blatant overacting inbetween.  If you are one of those people that doesn't like to think when they watch a movie, (and no people, that whole &quot;Oh the Matrix makes you WONDER&quot; line is just lame, stop it) you'll love this. If you are one of those people that aren't swayed by pretty lights and fancy special effects used to wow most audiences, stay well clear of this."
"Well I never thought I'd find a film so devoid of humanity, so soulless, so relentless in its desire to bombard the senses with special effects without even the remotest hint of a coherent plotline, that I'd actually leave the cinema feeling depressed....but yep...today I had such an experience...  The Matrix...the first movie I've seen that felt like it was directed by a machine...give me David Cronenberg's Videodrome anytime."
"Wow this film had soo much time and money put into bullet time i think they forgot about story, characterisation and plot.  Yes it all looks nice, but that doesn't make a film. The plot had so many holes it was unbelieveable. The bad guys walk around with pistols, huh, they can choose any weapon they can morph into anyone and all they use is pistols. The Matrix has the ability to remove all doors from a room but it doesn't have the power to ignite the room so that they all burn to death. The idea of the matrix was good until you start thinking about it. This film is entertaining but at the end of the day it's just a stylised version of so many Star Trek episodes and a copy of everything Sci Fi that's gone before it."
"If you've seen the commercial for 'The Matrix', then you've basically seen it all.  95% of the action in this film can be seen in the trailer.   The feeble attempt to cover an extremely thin plot by dazzling the audience with special effects ALMOST works; there just wasn't enough surprise since they gave it all away in the commercials. If you're looking for well-rounded characters, you will be disappointed. They are as flat as the plot. Fishburne does a great job in his role, but the long-winded speeches and monotone expression will put you to sleep. The last 25 minutes or so gave 'The Matrix' a breath of fresh air; wonderful action. If you fell asleep from the first 90 minutes, you will be awake then.  Many people saw that last 25 minutes and thought the film was great because of just that. I, however, believe it takes much more than a few special effects to earn my $6.50. At least at the show I saw, I was one of the majority; it seemed like more people disliked it than enjoyed it. If you have $6.50 and 2 hrs to spare, and if the Cable is out, go see 'The Matrix' ... otherwise, wait for the video."
"I will say that the matrix had a good idea and for a brief 20 minutes in the middle, it was intriguing.  But the cheesy special effects and melodrama were too much for me.  Most of the movie was laughable.  While the religious symbolism was there, the direction was poor.  The camera shots were bizarre, too much was left unexplained.  All in all a very poorly executed idea."
"I just thought I'd comment, after seeing this anywhere near the top 250 films of all time, that if I'd had the choice I would have walked out of this film.  The initial concept, I agree, was an excellent idea. Its execution left me initially bored, then irritated, then frustrated, then screaming for the exit. I guess I'm not de-sensitized enough to be able to get into the casual destruction of life, just because it's not the reality we think we know.  There is no reality, I agree. There are truly some wonderful concepts to explore in the initial idea to this film. But I guess if you were born before 1975, it's just going to ellude you... at least with everyone I know.  But so many kids have gone nuts over it, I cannot stop wondering how they got de-sensitized so quickly."
"The only reason this movie was such a success was because it was released at the right time.  All the characters have ZERO development, and Reeves' character has even less... if that's even possible.  I really can't stand this guy.  No matter what he's in, he manages to ruin it and suck away anything good the movie had going for it.  Whatever he's in, he taints.  He ruined &quot;Devil's Advocate&quot; for God's sake (and admit it, if you DID see it, you know you saw it to watch the always-magnificent Pacino make a total buffoon out of Reeves)!  And what's with this &quot;religious insight&quot; crap people are &quot;gaining&quot; from the movie?  You only think those things because you want them to be there.  If this &quot;messiah&quot; crap in the movie was actually there, then it would be obvious and EVERY viewer would realize it.  Fans of &quot;The Matrix&quot; just say those religious things are in the movie because they wish they were there... but they're really not.  People, please... Keanu Reeves is NOT Jesus, I assure you.  And if you still think he is, then I pity you for your stupidity.  1 out of 10"
"Superb special effects. Hideous,stupid,time consuming philosophising and acting,especially by Reeves.  The kung fu moves are the best thing in the movie except that the original japanese and hong kong studios have been doing them for years with really skilled martial artists.  A 10 for general consumption and a zero for people with a brain. New term for grossing more than 100 million: gross out."
"This is one of the most over rated rubbish i've seen.This film borrows so much from the Asian cinema and some sci-fi classics.The acting in it,is well TERRIBLE to say the least.Keanu Reeves walks around like hes smoked way to much blow.He is that wooden Disney have signed him for a re-make of Pinocchio.  The special effects are good but no better than T2 made 9 years before this..  Why this film has such a big fan base is beyond me.if you wanna see a film about robots taking over the world/destroying all of mankind.Go and rent any of the Terminater films to see this subject done in style.  And don't watch Matrix 2 or 3.Their even worse"
"This reminds me of watching someone else playing a videogame. Empty plot stolen from assorted sci-fi novels and works of eastern philosophy, weak unimpressive acting from keanu reeves. This movie is nothing more than a special-effects showcase. The only light in the mire that is this picture comes in the form of Laurance Fishburne, who brings his character devotion and life that is not present in anyone else in the film."
"I just did not enjoy this movie at all. We are left with too many questions, not enough answers, yes the action is great, other than that, not a very good film. The whole idea about a savior just sucks, where the hell did their inner spacecraft come from, why such yucky food, why, why why !!!!! Why bother !"
"I must say that I am a small admirer of sci-fi movies. Nevertheless, I have always liked good action, even if it happens in outer space. I must remind you here great movies, like &quot;Total Recall&quot;, &quot;Terminator&quot; and &quot;Star Wars&quot;. These movies captured my phantasy and my curiosity.  Great expectations I had when I started watching Matrix. I have heard so much about its deep dialogs and its special effects. In reality, those hopes collapsed in face of this movie. I have to confess that it is absolutely awful. Nothing more and nothing less.  The dialogs are sprinkled with a myriad of pseudo-philosophic sentences, which are intended to awake in us deep thoughts. Well, it didn't arouse anything in me but boredom. I do not accept that Morphius has some kind of deep perspective on life and I do not accept Neo's battle with himself as representing something in our lives. The movie has engaged in a circle of happenings which do not take us anywhere. All the passes between the real world and the Matrix world are so casual and unsophisticated, that it puzzled me. I do not understand why did the producers of this movie bother with so many transitions between the worlds, when nothing really happens, and the basic difference between the worlds is always maintained.  Lastly, I was deeply disappointed in the special effects. They are so simplistic and so few that I wonder whether this film should even be classified as a modern sci-fi.   My final conclusion would be that this movie has become some kind of culture item, and people were grasped by its media-magic. Two years after its release, it's so vane. Try to see it now, and you will be convinced."
"This film has no saving graces.  A silly, unbelievable plot is made worse by childish characterisation.  The gratuitous violence at the end, with innocent security guards being shot to pieces by our illustrious &quot;heroes&quot; completes the film's moral bankrupcy.  Would someone tell me why the bad guys where dark glasses?"
"I made every effort to be open minded about &quot;The Matrix.&quot; I put aside such questions as &quot;Why does Hollywood see Keanu as a cyberpunk? How came everyone is making making a big deal about these fx which you can see in shampoo commercials?&quot; I can honestly say I gave it every chance. The fact that the creators were trying to create fully developed worldview was admirable, and the movies surprises hadn't yet been revealed.  So as the movie rolled, and I got too see one of the worst, most painful movies I have ever seen, I could honestly say it wasn't me. I enjoy scifi and Hong Kong films, enjoy Philip K. Dick, so I was basically the ideal audience for this film.  The plot was so full of loopholes, maintaining suspension of disbelief was impossible. Except for one or two supporting cast members, the acting was lifeless, and the action was unsupported by any motivation. The antagonists were far more sympathetic than the protagonists, whose cold-blooded killing sprees did nothing to endear them to me. Finally the washed out lighting and coloring took away a lot of depth from the images.. when someone seems to leap from building to building, if the buildings look collapsed together, it's not that impressive.  And the fighting.. when you watch Jet Li or Jackie Chan fight, even when they are obviously assisted by wires, you feel an exhilaration at what they are physically capable of doing. The fights flow, and the character is maintained through out. In The Matirx, there is no real joy or sense of exertion. People punch each other, pull some interesting feats, but without any sense of risk or accomplishment.  What people saw in this waste of film, time and money, I do not know. But I include it with the American remake of Godzilla as one of the worst movies I have ever seen. If you want Phillip K. Dick reality warping, see Blade Runner. If you want good cyberpunk anime, see Akira or Ghost in The Shell, or for martial arts, a good Bruce Lee or Hong Kong flick.  But don't waste your time on this."
"I didn't like The Matrix. I thought it was an alright movie until I saw it again, then it just got to be annoying. I know only pseudo-intellectuals use this term, but it was pseudo-intellectual. I thought the characters were wooden, the dialogue was pretty bad, and it was all too convenient for me. When a character skips over the growth and learning process because they just downloaded the skills, like flying a helicopter or learning kung fu, I see that as a flaw in the story and writing. Then where does it stop? I was expecting a character to actually say, &quot;Well...yeah...I know how because I uh...I downloaded a...program.&quot; Nobody's fooling me with the whole &quot;it's about computers, they can do that&quot; bit. Save it for the 13-year-olds that &quot;understand&quot; the plot. There are smarter and more creative ways of conveying this idea. I hated the fight scenes as well. CGI on almost every fight, especially when everything looks like a game later does not mean its good. Far from it."
"TERRIBLE. And I rarely say that... but come on, why do people like this? Because alot of people are wowed by the special effects, but besides this... well, just look at the one line summary above. It's bad kung fu fighting mixed with the acting talents of a bunch of potheads. I swear not one emotion is used in this movie, it's like ATM machines talking to each other. But no... people watched this, now it's a complete trilogy of crap. It's crap like this that as long as you have great special effects your movie could be about a hamster who likes to run in his wheel. To find what I give this movie, take the number of wars Canada has fought in times the number of people who watched this movie. I give it that out of 100."
"Is Matrix action-packed? Yes! Does it have great special effects? Yes! Action movie lovers will be thrilled.  Is the plot solid? No. The background situation is so completely improbable that it borders on the ridiculous. The justification behind the action scenes is very, very weak. The potential philosophical content (about virtual realities) is completely ignored - unlike in Thirteenth Floor, for example. The symbolism is so heavy and cheap (Trinity, Neo = One, etc.) that it truly stinks.  And then you've got tons of ridiculous stuff going on. For example, within that virtual reality the heroes still have to use a heavy mobile phone to call home.  And then they cannot be &quot;beamed&quot; from that cell phone, no, they have to go to a fixed line phone - how very likely and logical!  I gave it a 6 for the action - and I was generous."
"Whoah!  That was a really awful excuse for a movie.  Horrible acting and a horrible script is what you get with this one, but I expected these things to be bad.  What I didn't expect was that the SFX were horrible too.  I can't believe people think that they are good.  Good special effects make you forget that you are seeing special effects, and you can believe that they are real.  In The Matrix, you never forget.  They are way overdone and end up looking very childish, and we've seen these cheezy effects done a million times in commercials even though people may not realize it.  All I've heard about this movie is how the effects are amazing, but I say if that is what you are looking for watch The Phantom Menace or The Mummy.  If you want to see a good virtual reality movie watch eXistenZ or even The Thirteenth Floor was better than The Matrix."
"For me, the experience of watching this film was like paying to watch paint dry in a room full of people who have never before seen paint dry and are hence absolutely thrilled by it.  You will probably love it, mind you. That's your privilege.  It just about functions as a crass action movie, provided you can sit through the tedious first hour, and the terrifyingly non-existent justification for something that (as several other reviewers have observed) could actually have been sensibly reasoned if anyone with reasonable intelligence or knowledge had been on the writing team.  As it is, this mediocre script using an old, old, old idea has nothing to offer fans of sci fi who can read and were awake in the eighties, and considerably less to offer action fans than John Woo's Hong Kong films. The framing plot, when revealed, requires more than just a willing suspension of disbelief, it requires that you dismantle all your critical faculties and just content yourself with wallowing in the faintly entertaining special effects.  It tries to be cool - and evidently succeeds in the eyes of many of the people who see it - but it seems to me little more than another soulless product of committee thinking and appeals to the lowest common denominator - and it doesn't get much lower than this.  If you wish to see the same ground covered with more intelligence and visual flare, try the better-than-average film 'Dark City' (also mentioned by another reviewer) or the less accessible, but more stylish 'eXistenZ'. Not that I feel 'The Matrix' stole it's one flimsy idea from these films. This old chestnut has been around as long as cyberpunk has, and probably longer for all I know.  Still, bread and circuses, I suppose. Keep the masses happy and then they don't have to think for themselves.  Ah well, it's only a blockbuster, I suppose. It's not supposed to be well made."
"I don't get why everybody loves this movie so much. It's just not that good. On its own merits, it deserves more than the one star I gave it, but when you factor in the annoyance factor of the gushing fans... well, let's say I just felt a need to counterbalance its high ratings.  Blah, blah, blah, special effects. So what. Yet another example of Special-Effects-In-Search-Of-A-Movie. The story holds together poorly. The premise was initially pretty interesting, but the movie seemed utterly incapable of establishing rules for how its world works and sticking to them.  Finally, the movie hit a pet peeve of mine, which was, to me, its ultimate, fatal flaw. I'm very big on the &quot;science&quot; part of &quot;science fiction&quot;. So you lose me instantaneously when you start introducing mystic mumbo-jumbo into a science fiction story. For me, this film jumped the shark when we get to that wise woman character. (nevermind that the mystic nonsense is somewhat demystified in the sequel films; this review is about *this* film). Yeah, dropping in an all-knowing, cryptic prophetess, without the tiniest hint of explanation of her abilities, makes for a convenient plot device, but defies all reason or sense."
"My word. Are we to believe that this (as of the date of this review, Feb. 3 '00) is the 33rd greatest film ever made? Says who? Mrs. Talbot's Seventh Grade computer proficiency class? This film borders on unwatchable to anyone with a sliver of sense. The villains aren't characters. The secondary protagonists only exist so they can be cast aside by the resulting force of Keanu breaking wind. They're names are all computer jargon, reminiscent of the gimmicky cartoon characters and batman villains whose defining traits would also (COINCIDENTALLY) be their names. The Matrix is a completely controlled false environment, (except the parts that aren't controlled? PHONES? GUNS THAT HURT THE BAD GUYS, WHO MAAADE THE GUNS?) It shamelessly advertises it's obviously approaching sequels during the dialogue, including introducing characters we never see, places we never go. The special effects are over-used confetti in a story that doesn't exist any more than the rest of the nonsensical and completely implausible fake world referenced in that story. The girl I love, is a huge fan of the Matrix. I can't help her now. But you can help others."
"Seeing this movie was like watching someone else play a video game: after 10 minutes I wanted to either leave or play some myself. As a matter of fact, the producers of this thing probably owe its popularity to parents who dumped their kids in video parlors at malls instead of sending them to school.  I mean, even if you get past the impressive (for awhile, anyway) whistles and buzzers, &quot;The Matrix&quot; pushes the envelope just an inch too far when it asks us to believe Keanu Reeves' MIND is being sought to SAVE THE WORLD! It's too funny for words. WHO could believe it?  Well, I guess if you have never met anyone who actually HAD a mind you MIGHT buy it. But, if that were the case, you probably wouldn't be allowed to go out of the house alone to see &quot;The Matrix.&quot;"
"No head, no tail, only a heap of special effects. The film all in all can be summarized in those words. Incredible persons who perform incredibly, with thousands of bullets flying and none of them reaching the targets, a story almost immaterial and a lot of deja vu worse of their predecessors: Keanu Reeves quoting himself in Little Buddha when he meets the other possible elects, the Blues Brothers or Man in Black for the black glasses, Butch Cassidy and Billy the Kid for the scenes of Reeves coming from behind a column with two guns blasting and so on. What did I forget ? Yes, some indirect advertising of a famous cellular telephone producer (the kind used is so particular .), perhaps not so common in 2199 (when is supposed to be the story), a software house where your chief tells you will be fired if arriving late working (while it is known that usually software houses are opened nearly 24 hours a day). A film to be forgotten."
"Despite the fact that Keanu Reeves couldn't act his way out of a wet bag, I was very excited to go see The Matrix because it had Laurence Fishbourne who's a very good actor and the previews were visually stunning.  Unfortunately, the special effects were the only things stunning about the movie, unless you count how stunningly stupid the dialogue was, or how stunningly bad the acting was (even good actors like Fishbourne and Joe Pantalione couldn't get anything out of this script).  The filmakers here took a wonderful concept, filled it with marvelous special effects and left it to die without any substance.  If it's enough for you for a movie to look good, then you'll love this film.  If, like me, you need an interesting story, good dialogue and acting, don't bother with The Matrix."
"The Matrix is nothing but a cheap and effect overladen copy of Rainer Werner Fassbinder&#39;s excellent TV-movie &quot;Welt am Draht&quot;, which was broadcast in 1973. Typical Hollywood overblown style, where they think FXs are everything. The Fassbinder movie hardly uses any effects at all, but is ten times as intelligent and a hundred times more enjoyable. Yach! Sorry, brothers Wachowski, have a look at the Fassbinder movie again and learn that less is more. Some people like this kind of action; for me it ruins a movie completely. I was still a kid when I saw that Fassbinder movie, and I would like to see it again; but their are some legal problems about the rights to this movie, and it can&#39;t be broadcast at the moment."
"I'm not sure why so many people were so impressed by this movie.  Story? Perhaps if you've never thought about realistic virtual reality, or dreamed you were a butterfly and wondered if you were a butterfly dreaming you were a man.  Then you might be blinded to the huge plot holes. But the script will fit wonderfully to its obvious destination: a video game surely on its way to stores right now.  Perhaps the action sequences, if you're the type who likes violence video games so much you'd be happy to sit and watch someone else play one... over and over and over.  The camera tricks and effects were interesting once, but we've all seen them on TV already -- the commercial, in fact, is better than the movie.  Certainly it wasn't the characters.  Only Morpheus had any kind of personality, which saved us from having to find out what the other actors might have been like if they'd been called on to act.  Keanu got two scenes that required acting (the kiss of life, and the epiphany), but he missed on both and just laid or stood there.  The rest of the movie, Neo was called The One, but he might have been The Zero -- other than a token reference to him having the trouble with authority figures all action heros are required by Hollywood Law to have (subtlely portrayed by having someone tell him &quot;you have trouble with authority figures, don't you?&quot;) he had no character, making Keanu a great fit for him.  William Gibson, save us!"
"I know that this is one of the most popular movies of all time, but that is a flaw in the viewing public. The main reason I dislike this movie so much is because it was a rip off of a much better movie that came out a couple years before it. That being Dark City. Lets review the similarities shall we? First of all our main character wakes up disoriented and not understanding the world around him JM because he lost his memory and Neo because he is taken out of the matrix. We find that both characters have been given a false set of memories by puppeteers (be them aliens or robots) We find that these puppeteers are doing the same thing for all people in an attempt to keep their own race going (matrix as batteries DC cus they need to find the soul) Finally the main character proves to be the savior of the humans by finding they are the only one who can put an end to the false lives that the puppeteers are forcing humans to live. they both do this through the same method. by having a mentor teach them how to use the devices of their captors against them (neo learns how to hack and control the matrix while Murdoc learns how to use the machines of the strangers to alter reality. also we see stylish black leather as the main wardrobe in the matrix. black leather gowns are the main wardrobe for the strangers. moving away from the rip off problem we see that Dark City has a message implying you to ask yourself if your identity is more than just the sum of your memories. the matrix makes people feel smart for understanding the movie, but really offers no deep thought. the feel of Dark City is also better since it has the dark ambiance created by the same director as The Crow. while the matrix has nothing new or special about its &quot;feel&quot; just your basic action movie with a plot to try to make the viewer feel smart. Point is: same movie only better (although lacking the eye candy the public adores) is Dark City"
"Tell me...what do you get when you take a bunch of computer nerds who have no concept of effective storytelling and put them into a room to make a movie...?  You get &quot;The Matrix&quot;  I hate this movie...and you wanna know why?  Because it serves no purpose. It's &quot;Dude, Where's my Car&quot; on steroids...louder, flashier, but not a bit more interesting.  The whole thing is based on special effects.  It's a film by two directors that think half of the cameras running at 300 fps is art...or something.  Hugo Weaving has the only good performance in this movie as Agent Smith. Carrie Anne Moss is bland as can be.  Do I even have to comment on Keanu Reeves....dude...woah...nuff said.  This is the perfect example of Joel Silver run amuck.  Just because you have money to produce movies, doesn't mean you should produce bad movies....sounds pretty obvious to me.  I'm just so thankful when I see someone like Steven Spielberg putting out a movie like Minority Report...a movie (actually...a director and crew) that knows how to USE special effects to drive a story.  Not just shoot the hell out of a government building...hmmmm...not such a great scene to slip in there now, huh?  So, to everyone involved in The Matrix...give up your black leather, gun toting, world-is-an-illusion, horrible filmmaking and go put your money to good use...like film school."
"This film is abolutely awful. My girlfriend and I would have left the cinema half-way through if we knew that we both felt the same about it at the time! Apart from the special effects, the film suffers from WOODEN ACTING (There goes Keanu again!) and ridiculous storyline. The special fx are amazing though - apart from that it is a total waste of time. However - we seem to stand alone on this one, as the rest of the world seems to think this is the most amazing film ever made. Oh well."
"Somewhere along the line, someone planning this film forgot to put in a plot.  It's worse than &quot;Twister&quot; in that respect.  Ooh look at all our fancy camera tricks and weapons and weird sci-fi stuff that really makes no sense.  But it's loud!  And that makes a good film, you know.  And I would love, just once in my life, to see Keanu Reeves not play a blank-faced doofus in every movie he's made since &quot;Bill and Ted.&quot;  In short, I absolutely and totally hated this film.  My fiance loves it and watches it at least once a month, but I would rather clean out a cat box every hour for the rest of my life than ever see this film again."
"I side with the negative crowd on this one; with the risk of sounding pompous I have to say this: To believe that this is a brilliant film suggest a low level of education and an underdeveloped personal philosophy. There, I've said it. To question the realness of reality is a 400-year old Cartesian idea. Actually, it was explored more interestingly in the old Star Trek episode &quot;Spectre of the Gun&quot; in 1969. The rest of the film is an obvious rip-off of &quot;The Terminator&quot; and all of John Woo, which are far more interesting movies. The film ponders too long on the central premise, and there isn't enough action to make it a good action movie, either. Still, overall production design is great, but the acting is wooden, and Fishburne makes for an unconvincing guru. All the good scenes were revealed in the trailer, so there's not much else to do than just sit in the theatre and feel patronized by the whole thing. At least, that's what I did. The whole thing just isn't half as clever and original as it wants to be."
"I can't believe that anyone would seriously suggest that this film was even average!  It was worst film I have seen in a very long time.  The movie had so little to offer, it is hard to only point to specific flaws:  1) Keanu has to be one of the worst actors of our era.  He shows no signs of even moderate intelligence or talent, and as a hero, he comes across as flat and unispiring.  It is hard to believe that his character would have anything to offer that would distingish him from your average idiot.  And in action scenes, it was impossible to tell if he is *supposed* to look silly or if he can't help it.  No charisma, no flair, just pathetic.  2) Very shallow and poor development of an unoriginal idea.  The idea that our reality is not real at all is hardly original.  It has been the subject of science fiction for decades, and a successful treatment of the subject should delve into some psychological depths.  We should be left wondering whether our world truly is real.  Or we should get a sense of how willing or unwilling we might be to face the fact that our world is an illusion.  We should wonder whether it matters if our world is an illusion, or whether reality is what we perceive as real.  Whatever the protrayal, we should leave the theater feeling intellectually moved.  While the film briefly brushed on some of these topics, it was so brief and shallow that no impression was left.  Instead, focus returned to martial arts which had no real purpose in terms of the plot.  3) The story dragged as we were forced to sit through an explanation of the matrix that was completely obvious--a couple of visual effects would have gotten the point across in less than a minute with more effect.  While the characters beat the idea of the matrix to death in the dialogue, it did little to shed light into the hearts and minds of the characters.  What was their motivation, from where did they get their drive and courage?  Why were they able to sense the matrix?  None of the answers are even touched upon, and the characters are flat and unrealistic as a result.  4) The idea of the matrix is very poorly thought out.  Instead of creating a believable world and believable rules for the matrix, the plot resorts to physical fighting, which makes no sense at all.  The film obviously had no intention of stretching the mind of the viewer, instead catering to an audience of mindless action-addicts. While action might have added to a well-thought out film, it cannot support a film where the premise is psychological or intellectual.  5) No sense of despair, darkness, or power from the futuristic scenes. The future world is portrayed so little that we really don't even have a chance to be overwhelmed by how horrible it could be.  In an attempt to make a happy action film, the dark undertones were completely dropped.  The very few redeeming values were: 1) Interesting use of slow-motion action 2) A few nice special effects (no more than an average action film these days) 3) A promising premise.  While not original, the idea has great potential. Several other films, such as Dark City have shown a bit of this potential, and there is a plethora of such plots in books.  In short, any thoughtful, insightful, meaningful, or inspired treatment of a potentially interesting idea was completely dropped to show a few almost laughably out of place action scenes.  The fact that people rave about this movie shows that people are willing to swallow the mindless just for some cool effects.  How sad."
"I love Sci Fi movies, but sitting through this piece of garbage was just torture! This movie definitely makes my bottom 10 of all time.   The movie was boring, I had no idea what was going on half the time, because I couldn&#39;t seem to pay attention. I found this movie uninteresting, hard to follow, unbelievable when I was was able to follow along and the acting left a lot to be desired. If it weren&#39;t for the special effects, I believe this movie would have been a total flop because the story was terrible.   This just proves that if you have enough special effects in a movie, that people will watch anything. Needless to say, I won&#39;t be watching any sequels to this film. I&#39;d rather have my eyeballs gouged out with salad tongs!"
"I learned of the &quot;Ultimate Matrix&quot; DVD set last year, near Christmas, which was undoubtedly what it was intended to be purchased for. Since I'm in sobriety, as of River Phoenix's autopsy signature date, November 15, 1993, I have taken a keen interest in his, his family's, his friends', and colleagues' histories. He was with Keanu Reeves, as many of you know, in &quot;My Own Private Idaho,&quot; in the early 90s, where they did drugs to do the sex scenes, from which River never fully recovered, and this ultimately led to his OD, outside The Viper Room, in LA, on Halloween morning, 1993.   I could write on and on about the &quot;Matrix&quot; series, which is most likely what Keanu Reeves is now known best for--and before that, it was the &quot;Bill and Ted&quot; movies. He and River tried to &quot;escape&quot; their teen idol images, by being in Gus Van Sant's horrible movie.   I have a limited time, on-screen, at present, as I'm at the library and I need to get to a meeting in Mill Valley, now.  To &quot;cap,&quot; I find the &quot;Matrix&quot; movies to be &quot;too violent and sexy.&quot; It should be a rating--and then, the movie wouldn't get made that way.   I just did a little &quot;research&quot; on the Wachowskis, at this humongous and prominent site, where I've been harassed routinely for my November 15th story, and I just found out that Andy Wachowski's wife, Thea Bloom, filed for divorce in late 2002, because he was leaving her for a &quot;professional dominatrix,&quot; who had made him his &quot;slave!&quot;   Keanu Reeves &quot;owes an apology&quot; to us, if I may be so bold. I didn't think I'd &quot;demand&quot; this, publicly, as I write him, &quot;clandestinely,&quot; via Paulie Kosta of Becky, the band they're in together with Rebecca Lord and Rob Mailhouse, but I never hear back directly anyway, so here goes!  I could get much more &quot;deep,&quot; as I just heard the commentary by Cornel West and Ken Wilbur, with which I did not always agree, since I feel you cannot &quot;justify&quot; such violence and graphic sex in movies. Most out of Hollywood are this way for me--and the sex scenes in &quot;My Own Private Idaho&quot; led indirectly to River's OD. Is anyone in sobriety as of that, but me? I just think these people were &quot;lucky&quot; if they survived the Wachowskis.   What is not covered in the very long DVD &quot;ultimate&quot; series is the fact that Jennifer Syme, Keanu Reeves' girlfriend, who gave stillbirth to their daughter, Ava Archer, on Christmas Eve, 1999, is not mentioned. After their &quot;break-up&quot; over this, shortly thereafter, she died in an apparent DUI, where she was the only one driving, after coming from Marilyn Manson's mansion in LA, where there'd been a party! She'd been with Reeves, apparently, just the day before, having lunch in San Francisco at Crepes on Cole, which I've never heard of, near where the &quot;burly man&quot; scene was being shot for &quot;Matrix Reloaded,&quot; among others in Alameda County! Manson's obscene music is on the first movie's soundtrack, and a video of it is included in the DVD series, unbelievably!   Jennifer's mother, Maria St. John, sued Manson for &quot;wrongful death,&quot; about a year later, but he apparently has so much money that I think she &quot;lost,&quot; since he denied charges.   The &quot;architect&quot; scene was filmed at that time, and it was later used in an MTV movie awards ceremony introduction, starring Justin Timberlake, which was &quot;foul&quot; about women, in this case Trinity--and &quot;made fun&quot; of Gloria Foster's role in the movies, too. Reeves gave his approval to use his image from these scenes, and it was not &quot;OK&quot; with me!   Gloria Foster died of a sudden heart attack, during shooting, and Aaliyah died in a plane crash, too, that year, as well as the terrorist attacks occurring.   A reason I am &quot;concerned&quot; about Reeves, in particular, when it comes to the &quot;Matrix&quot; series, is because he has been in a number of DUIs, most notably one in the 80s, where he shut his headlights off on his bike in Toganga Canyon, where he apparently &quot;lost his spleen,&quot; according to the &quot;Hardball&quot; directors' commentary! Hence, my &quot;demand&quot; for an apology!  One good thing that has come of all my writing is that last fall, Johnny Depp finally gave his controlling share of The Viper Room to Anthony Fox's daughter. Fox &quot;disappeared mysteriously,&quot; after suing Depp for money. A judge was trying to shut down the club. I wrote him about my getting into sobriety, as of River's autopsy, &quot;coincidentally.&quot; I don't think it's a &quot;coincidence,&quot; really. If you look at this date in history, it is &quot;significant,&quot; and I feel the spirits convened for me."
"Warner Bros. Pictures issued a statement denying any tie between real-world violence and the virtual violence of the &quot;Matrix&quot; movies: &quot;Any attempt to link these crimes with a motion picture . . . is disturbing and irresponsible.&quot;  Yet criminals themselves keep making the connection. When Lee Boyd Malvo, teen half of the alleged D.C. sniper duo, goes on trial for murder in Chesapeake, Va., tomorrow, his attorney confirms that he too will weave &quot;The Matrix&quot; into his insanity defense. Malvo told FBI agents that they should &quot;watch &#39;The Matrix&quot;&#39; if they wanted to understand him, and jailers found lines of dialogue from the film scribbled on paper in his cell. Even the Columbine killers were &quot;Matrix&quot; fans. (From Boston Globe By Mark Schone, 11/9/2003)  Neo finds himself in an alternate reality, aware that he once was &quot;unconscious&quot; in a computer-generated virtual reality and killers are chasing him. He must resort to fancy footwork and plenty of violence himself in order to save the world. All that he once believed has proved false as he&#39;s designated the savoir and learns his secret super powers. What Neo does serves a higher purpose, which gives his violence noble flavor. But that&#39;s a movie. Or is it? Apparently, some murder defendants have come to believe they were in the matrix and that killing others was therefore justified. Lee Boyd Malvo, was devoted to the movie. In jail he made many jottings, including a plea that people should free themselves from the Matrix. He told the FBI to watch the film... In San Francisco, Vadim Mieseges, 27, killed and dismembered his landlady, and in his defense he said that he&#39;d been &quot;sucked&quot; into the Matrix. In Ohio, Tonda Lynn Ansley also attacked her landlady on this premise, but was certain she had not really done so: it was only a dream. She had targeted three others as well, to free herself from their mind control. In Virginia 19-year-old Joe Cook, who claimed he did not realize what he was doing when he dressed like Neo, grabbed his twelve-gauge shotgun (purchased because it resembled one in the movie), and shot both of his adoptive parents to death. (From Crime Library by Katherine Ramsland)"
"First Version It is such a pitty that misfits like this come to such an appreciation these days. No sign of philosophy whatsoever, just a sort of foggy net of actions pretending to be intelligent that loom the idea of an universal manipulation and a whole load of special effects, very much to the liking of unsensitive freaks.  Second Version Yet, all that could be true, and all of us just little wheels of an evil mechanism. The manipulation consists of making a mockery of serious things and esoterical truths. Once a movie like this appears, the watchful eye is distracted."
"Horrendous. Godawful. Deplorable. These words don&#x27;t even sum up how bad THE MATRIX is. It&#x27;s a movie existing for no one, other than whoever benefits from the tax write-off. It has been made without an ounce of passion, intelligence or interest by filmmakers who have, - stunningly - made good movies in the past. I hate THE MATRIX and want to forget it exists as soon as possible.  Yet I forge on. Consider this review a warning; if you actually end up watching THE MATRIX after reading this, I never want to know you. In every way, it is beneath the standards of an original Sci-Fi movie; at least those have a little bit of gumption, a spiritedness that indicates someone within the production had fun while making it."
"This is the biggest crap movie I&#39;ve ever tortured myself through. How on earth did it reach the Top250 list? Is it because people feel committed and therefore &quot;must&quot; love it? I can&#39;t see no other reason at all. It gave me absolutely nothing. OK, the special effects are maybe good, but what&#39;s the use of it when the story is as far beyond realism as you possibly can get? People that liked this movie have said that this could be the reality in 100-200 years from now on, and even earlier. Excuse me, but how stupid can you get? Nothing of it will even be reality in a billion years. It is impossible to &quot;fuck up&quot; brains like that. It will never happen that a human being that knows absolutely nothing about how to control a helicopter, can have all the knowledge and experience thats needed transferred to its brain in just hundreds of a second. People, please, get a life, get realistic..."
"It&#x27;s astonishing that so much money, talent, technical expertise and visual imagination can be put in the service of something so stupid. This overlong, high concept hokum is little more than a bloated, mechanical, and tiresome film which is big on visuals and short on story. Bland, androgynous Keanu Reeves plays a 22nd-century computer hacker who is recruited by Carrie-Anne Moss to join a band of cyber freedom fighters led by Morpheus in a struggle against the scary, menacing machines that control mankind. The result is an eye-popping, deafening and mind-numbing muddled mayhem and possibly the least humane, least responsible, least pardonable movie I have ever seen."
"Quite simply, The Matrix is an overblown pile of tosh, unengaging tripe at the best of times, depressing nonsense at worst. Keanu is outrageously bad as Neo, Lawrence &quot;should have skipped those 5 burgers&quot; Fishburne gives a career worst performance.  As for the effects, dreadful! Already look badly dated. The story is a tired mish-mash of inconprehensible crud! I went to the cinema with a few pals, we got separated. They saw it in another screen approx 30mins after me. When they came out they were raving about how good it was. I have since disowned them. Anybody who says they like this film should be erased from you life.  Utter utter garbage personified!!!!!!!!"
"What can you say about a movie where Laurence Fishburne (the poor man's Samuel L. Jackson) is the most exciting character?  It's hard to know who the good guys are...the personality-deficient Agents, or the personality-deficient Neo.  Lots and lots of flashy special effects and pretty people in trendy outfits, and too much hard-to-swallow plot made this a pretty dull viewing.  In ten years, this one will just be like &quot;Cleopatra&quot;...high budget, but with no lasting qualities."
"I found this movie too boring and predictable. The plot dragged and I don't think developed enough.  I didn't find the special effects that great (I was forced to see it a second time to catch the end - but I didn't pay) and I believe that all these effects have been done before in a more convincing way with better timing. The effects (which _IS the movie) were very few and far between and the characters not developed a great deal to their potential.... I must say when neo was being towed by the helicopter, that looked very cheap indeed!  The slow motion looked very familiar - lock stock and two smoking barrels band waggon! and the story (as I said) predictable and unconvincing!"
"I had high hopes, but this movie was terrible. The storyline was woefully pretentious and the action scenes were so-so; the fight scenes were particularly risible. It looked like Hong Kong action cinema with the last thin tethers to reality removed.  Movies like this are sucking the oxygen out of science fiction; they touch all the bases, but there's no trace of intelligent thought or emotion behind the pompous story-line. Ah, well. If William Gibson can't write a decent cyberpunk movie script, who can?"
"I am so tired of movies where all that matters is how cool it looks.  The plot was ridiculous and if I had heard that Neo was the &quot;One&quot; one more time, I would have run screaming from the theatre.  At the end of the movie a group of twenty-something guys were exiting ahead of us and one of the guys said, &quot;that was pretty excellent!&quot;  I thought, &quot;Well, I guess it's working for its demographic.&quot;  I think the thing that bothered me most was that there were some cool possibilities that didn't pan out. I really liked &quot;Bound&quot; a lot and was heartily disappointed by this sharp looking but ultimately pointless movie."
"This is a big load of incomprehendable sci fi crap, that you will have to watch twice just to understand. It is like a painful x-men comic, but worse. The characters, plotting and other such attrocities are a joke, and this is the kind of film that belongs in the rubbish dump! This film should have been forgotten, just your regular crappy si fi, but somehow, it became a classic. Just goes to show, pretty special effects make a successful movie...."
"Is it just me, or are all the people who love this movie unable to ARTICULATE why?  Words like &quot;cool&quot; and &quot;it ROCKS&quot; hardly qualify a movie as being good.  I would sooner take poison than take movie-going advice from people who use words like &quot;trippy&quot; and &quot;bogus&quot; to recommend a film.  If you like the Matrix, great.  But please try to articulate WHY you like it, instead of lambasting those of us who DIDN'T.  WE have made VALID points... not defensive insults.  Peace out, and keep on rockin' dudes.  (that was sarcasm by the way)"
"In mu honest opinion, The matrix is a poor film.  The film is just a chance to show off modern special effects. It appears to me that they decided to forget about the story. Also I believe that Keanu Reeves was a terrible choice to play Neo. It didn't help that his charactor was a 1 dimensional cardboard cutout."
"What has happened to Keanu Reeves? If, for some reason, you like Keanu, watch Speed, or the Bill and Ted movies. Not this garbage. What does this movie offer? Special Effects, that's it. I've seen better storylines in porno movies and videogames. I usually enjoy Sci-fi flicks, but not this one. Sci-Fi flicks are supposed to make you think, they're supposed to give you a psychological thrill, but this just makes you wonder how anyone could like it."
"This was......without a doubt, the absolute worst film ever created for movie going public in the history of the world!.....just riddled with continuitty errors and a senseless plot that some people belive is a reality!  0/10"
This movie had great effects and camera angles.  Definitely not a movie for anyone who suffers from nightmares!  Extremely thin and disjointed plot for a sci-fi flick.  It reminded me of late '60s and early '70s &quot;stream of consciousness&quot; movies.  It probably would help to be stoned on something before entering the theater.  All this combined made for a way too long and way too boring evening out. But it will do fine for the &quot;what you see is what you get&quot; crowd.  Leave your I.Q. at home.
"- cheap philosophy - &quot;cool&quot; heroes - cheap plot  Simply a movie for the current audience longing for action, &quot;cool&quot; sayings and an easy to follow plot. What else can I say? The philosophy,most people who rate this movie good seem to credit, is the same one will think through while laying on grass staring at the stars being totally p***ed. But who wonders about todays youth being deeply impressed by something like that...  One last question for the neverbelievers out there... Who tells you the real world Neo escapes to from the Matrix isn't just another Matrix? ;)"
This movie is a complete let down. I thought there was going to be some depth to it or at least some good acting or something. Sure the special effects were &quot;neat&quot; but thats all. I dont recommend this movie to anyone and am ashamed to even admit i ever saw it. Thank god the sequel is better though so there is light for this pathetic movie. um i cant even think of anything else to write about becuase this movie is so bad.  * out of ****
This movie is nothing special. The effects are crap. The acting is Crap. Reeves is one of the worst actors I have ever seen. WHY 2 SEQUELS???? I thankfully missed this awful movie at the theaters and sadly saw it on video. I began watching this movie with high hopes and I was sorley dissapointed. What is the point??????????????????????? Saying that humanity is a computer generated life style. What kind of an idea is that??? It kind of ruins the way that you look at life!!!!!!!!! The soundtrack sucks and so does the cheap special effects!!!! This movie is almost as bad as The Godfather. The thing these 2 movies have in common is that they both suck and are over rated beyond belief. WHAT IS SO GREAT ABOUT THIS MOVIE!!!!!!!!!!!!!! My answer is nothing. If you want a good movie look at the Spiebergs and the Lucas and the Camerons. Lets not forget truley good movies of Baz Luhrmann and Tim Burton. Think about it people this movie is CRAP!!!!!!!!!!!!! Why are so many people into this movie??? It not so good!!!
"This movie SUCKED.  It S U C K E D!.  We're talking down there with The Crow and CHUD.  The acting was horrible (Reeves and Fishburne -enough said).  The story was stupid.  More than that, the reality it was based on would be metaphysically impossible as it violates the time-space continuum.Watching this waste of time made me wish someone else were in my space at the theater.  Yeah, it has special effects... big deal.  SE doesn't make a movie and should never be the high point. It also has the pseudo martial arts flying around the room crud that so many movies unfortunately use today.  In short, The Matrix was the Titanic of SciFi -lots of glitz with absolutely no substance."
"What kind of movie was this....... It was really stupid... It had a snow white ending... and the movie has a dumb story to it. I much prefer SwordFish over the Matrix! The Matrix had truly Hollywood actors in it, which could not act. There was no point to this movie.. it was a waste of time."
"This is a disorganized mess on the order of Pulp Fiction: I thought the reels were in the wrong order, and I had a videotape!  Internally inconsistent, horribly overacted, special-effects blinded, the whole thing is an excuse for the tired &quot;man against machine&quot; plot.  Cool special effects cannot save everything, and even a stellar actor can't if given a rotten script.  This is a few hours of my life I want back!"
"And boring.  And needlessly confusing.  Leave it Larry Fishburne to make Keanu Reeves look good.  It's always great to see a potentially good actor follow up such stinkers as Hoodlum and the god-awful Event Horizon with a movie that can dig him out of a craphole.  Too bad this wasn't that movie. And what about Keanu, you ask?  Well he's good.  Especially when his mouth disappears.  And credit those Bound brothers, for giving him as few lines as possible.  Unfortunately, they didn't seem to do fit with Fishburne.  And, by the way, when are bad guys gonna be something besides guys in black suits and black shades?  When is a special effects movie going to be made that has a decent story?  When are American filmmakers going to stop copying John Woo?  Does he really deserve to be copied so much in the first place? Finding these answers maybe like finding a reason to watch this movie again: Impossible."
"The Matrix is perhaps the most overrated movie i have ever seen, it doesnt offer anything but... Overwrited or other manner bad and comic dialog. Amusing armchair amateur philosophy that makes me laugh! Boring, overcool, unintentional-comic and baffled looking kung fu fights and shooting scenes with stupid looking slowmotions. Also a lot of clich&eacute;s and scenes that are copied from other movies. I give The Matrix 1/10 and it deserves its 100%. Dont ever watch this movie, its waste of time and maybe waste of money if you rent it or go to cinema to see it!"
"If you've ever heard a diehard Matrix fan talk about this movie, you can really begin to understand what &quot;hype&quot; is.  There's no doubt I enjoyed the movie. It's very entertaining. But as far as it having all these levels of meaning, in being ground-breaking in anything other than the interesting &quot;bullet time&quot; camera work? It wasn't here.  The Wachowski brothers are more or less just very good hacks. They took the main plot directly out of Terminator and gave it a virtual reality twist and a techno sound-track. They even stole the idea of having a blue tinge to everything, then when they realised that was too obvious they changed it to green.  The acting is somewhat of a let down, but it can be overlooked considering the nature of the film. It isn't meant to be high drama after all. Generally it is poor, especially from Keanu Reeves and Carrie Ann Moss. Their characters don't really require a lot of acting ability, but they still manage to seem wooden and unconvincing for the most part. This isn't helped by the poor dialogue throughout.  There are some good performances though, particularly Hugo Weaving and Joe Palantino. Fishbourne was OK, but the rest of the cast don't deserve a mention - except for Marcus Chong, not for his acting, but for his real life career ending stupidity in getting kicked off the sequels by demanding equal billing in them. Considering his character was probably the most expendable that wasn't very smart.  Another let down was the tacky &quot;love story&quot;. If you thought Episode II had a stupid, nonsensical romantic element, it's nothing compared to The Matrix. Trinity more or less &quot;falls in love&quot; with Neo because a) he's good looking and b) lack of other options.  One other thing I didn't really like was the lead in to the story. The first half hour or so is spent trying to convince the audience &quot;this is going to be so cool, and meaningful, and deep, we are really on to something special here&quot; and when you have time to look back on it, this self hype to the main plot was poorly executed and cheapens the film a lot. A movie shouldn't insult its audience by trying to tell them what to think of it before it gets anywhere.  Other than that this is enjoyable movie, which becomes sillier the more seriously you take it. So enjoy it for what it is, a brainless sci-fi special effects vehicle."
"&quot;The Matrix&quot; is utter nonsense and total stupidity.  An incredible hodgepodge of all the mindless Spielberg-Lucas epics, James Bond gadgetries, Kubrick effects, plus about 75 years of cheepie-to-high budgeted action/sci-fi/thriller flicks distilled into one vat. Throw in the latest computer-styled technological inventions for good measure.  And finally add a pinch of philosophical jargon, just to give it an illusion of substance, stir well and -- there it is: a product that can well be labeled, &quot;Warning: enter this movie at your own mental health risk.&quot;"
"This movie is the biggest piece of crap I've seen in years.  It is horrible on all levels; plot and dialog mainly.  You'll understand if you watch it and hear lines like &quot;It's my way or the highway&quot;.  The writers did have a good idea with a storyline involving a world in which humans are kept captive by a computer  through real-time simulations, but they completely blew it from there."
"I saw the &quot;famous&quot; Matrix 3 years ago, after all the hype, I waited for the video. I wasn't like &quot;Oh, I know this is going to suck.&quot; I had an open mind. I do like this movie for one reason, it made me realize: MY GENERATION RELYS ON COMPUTER EFFECTS?!?!?!!?!?!?!!??! There is practically no plot, crumie acting(except for Morphious), all effects, and just an excuse for computer nerds to get together for this crap.  I mean, Spiderman I could deal somewhat, but man. This was nothing. All the actors got in front of a green screne and the director is like &quot;Ok, pretend that something scary is coming at you!&quot; Wow, what motivation. I got really bored, tried watching it (going on 5) again, nothing. I can't get it, and I wish Keanu the best of luck. Because I hope the sequal will have more luck.  4/10"
"Launched in 1999 and one of the most successful movies of the year, &quot;Matrix&quot; is an amazing movie. It ranks among the movies that leave the spectator bemused, even after several projections.  In a way, it's very similar to Paul Verhoeven's movie &quot;Total Recall&quot; (1990). The two movies have got a complicated but mesmerizing screenplay, astounding special effects and especially, a main character with two faces: Keanu Reeves. It means that at the beginning of the movie, he's introduced as someone who leads a peaceful but common life. But an unexpected event will transform his life and make him a hero.  &quot;Matrix&quot; is also a very well stable movie that you can divide in two parts: the first one mainly focuses on long dialogs sequences that incline to reflection while the second one honors stunning action sequences.  A remarkable performance crowns it all and Keanu Reeves finds here his best role to date. The sole weakness of the movie is the love affair between Reeves and Laurence Fishburne. The Wachowski brothers felt compelled to include this, maybe to give their movie, a Hollywood nature.  An awesome science-fiction film that easily ranks among the best movies of the nineties."
OK I seem to be the only person in the world who doesn&#x27;t like this movie. Maybe its just my opinion but keanu reeves is one of the worst actors in Hollywood. Everyone second he is on screen I feel like taking a bullet to my brain. The story line was all over the place and the action was lame.  Lawrence fishbourne did a good job but like I said keeanu is just too bad. He shows no emotion in his words he is like a wooden robot just saying things. I don&#x27;t know how he continues to get work in movies it absolutely blows my mind. The whole time I spent wishing he would die...He never did....
"Glorified martial arts movie masquerading as a science-fiction thriller, this blockbuster hit struck a nerve with the public, though it isn&#39;t as brainy (or as deep) as one might be led to believe. Keanu Reeves is typically one-note as a computer-hacking loner who finds his life may not be reality--and that an alternate reality introduced to him by guru Laurence Fishburne could destroy him. Written and directed by the Wachowski brothers, who seem to enjoy a twisting story--though at the expense of logic (forget credibility). A more engaging leading man might have made the technical asides easier to wade through, although most audiences didn&#39;t seem to mind. Followed by &quot;The Matrix Reloaded&quot; and &quot;The Matrix Revolutions&quot;, both in 2003. *1/2 from ****"
"I know why you&#39;re reading this. You&#39;re smart, you have great taste, a passion for cinema, and you see CK near the top of every &#39;Great Movie&#39; list ever compiled. So with great anticipation you borrow a DVD copy and sit down for a real treat, and... you can&#39;t get through the first half hour. You fall asleep.  Surprised, you think, &#39;It must be me, maybe I&#39;m tired,&#39; so a month later, you try again. But you don&#39;t even get as far as before, and wake up drooling out the corner of your mouth as a bloated Orson Welles, with really bad age make-up, groans &#39;Rosebud, Rosebud&#39;.   It doesn&#39;t make sense. You&#39;re perplexed. You&#39;ve watched other films on the lists... Casablanca made you stand up and cheer, cry, laugh, feel connected to all humanity. You even adore films on the list that some might consider oblique, like 8 1/2, which you reckon reinvented cinema language, weaving in and out of memory, dreams, psyche, reality, putting the human spirit up on the screen, making you cheer, laugh, and feel connected to all humanity.   So why does CK leave you so cold? You wonder, &#39;What&#39;s wrong with me? Am I stupid or something?&#39;  Your borrowed DVD copy gathers dust (notice how the lender never asks for it back?), taunting your unquiet mind: &quot;You must watch me: I&#39;m the greatest film of all time!&quot; But you shudder at the thought. Life&#39;s too short and, after all, there&#39;s more engaging things to do - like scraping plaque off the dog&#39;s teeth.  Years pass. Finally, you can take it no longer. You think, &#39;To be a serious film lover I MUST watch Citizen Kane! Maybe I was too immature before - yes, that must be it!&#39; So you gird your loins and sit - awake! - through the whole thing. The whole turgid, ponderous, dull, vacuous, plodding, dank catastrophe. It&#39;s even worse than you feared. An emotionally and intellectually empty story. Your average six year old can invent a more complex, engaging tale.  Genuinely puzzled, you ask people who name it as one of the greatest films of all time why they like it, and with barely concealed superiority that phoneys are wont to adopt, they wax lyrical talk about the haunting mystery of the final words, &quot;Rosebud, rosebud&quot;. You notice there&#39;s no feeling behind what they say. They also talk a great deal about Gregg Toland&#39;s cinematography, with liberal references to &quot;deep focus&quot;, and you appreciate this, you really do, the cinematography was damned fine, best thing about the movie. That shot which started outside the window then tracked back into the room was really cool. But you just don&#39;t believe a movie is made great by cinematography alone.   In all your inquiries, you never once hear the following phrase, spoken from the heart: &quot;God, I love that film&quot;.  So here you find yourself, reading IMDb comments.  Well, let me tell you this: There&#39;s Nothing Wrong With You! You Are Right! It&#39;s Overrated Flashy Unintelligent Rubbish!  One day, perhaps (one can but dream), the coolest, greatest, most admired film being in the world will point out the bleeding obvious nakedness of this bloated Emperor, and the assorted film critics, film studies teachers, and others who need to be told what to think by an authority figure, shall squirm, and CK shall drop off the lists once and for all.   Until that great day, don&#39;t be afraid to speak the truth."
"I have tried to watch this movie 3 times.  Each time I promise myself that I will watch it through to see all the facinating camera angles and light shading.  I want to see the last ten minutes of the film and be awed and amazed as I realize that Rosebud is something extraordinary.  I want to recognize Mr. Wells' genius, daring, and inventivness.  I want to feel the passion, emptiness, and all the other powerful emotions that the actors and &quot;unique&quot; cinematography portray in this movie.  I have not been able to make it yet.  This is the single most boring hard to watch movie that I have ever tried to watch.  I can usually watch about any movie at least once, but not this one.  I don't need exciting special effects, car chases, shoot outs, or sex scenes to keep me interested.  I just need the movie to be interesting. This film is not interesting to me.  I love history and I watch many older movies and I appreciate most of them for what they are, and in the time frame that they were made.  But this one is just very hard to watch. If you have to have a college professor,(who himself has had to read a book about it to understand it) explain a movie to you so that you can appreciate it, then I'm sorry folks but then it just &quot;ain't good&quot;.  I have enjoyed thousands of movies, and I have disliked many also, but very few have I never been able to finish watching and this is one of them."
"Okay. First of all, I DO like many old movies. 12 angry men, Casablanca, Where Eagles Dare, Psycho, The Treasure of Sierra Madre, The Great Dictator, Some Like it Hot and more. They&#39;re all brilliant and I enjoyed them throughout.  But Citizen Kane...I just can&#39;t see what&#39;s so great about it. It made no impression on me whatsoever. When it comes to plot, camera-angles, themes, characters, acting and such, it seems like few movies are as praised as this. Still, when I read reviews on other classics, for example Casablanca, it feels like they say many of the same things.  I&#39;m not an expert on what makes some films objectively better than others, but if the other classics with most of the other &quot;greatnesses&quot; actually ARE interesting and fun to watch, then Citizen Kane should also be able to entertain as well as just being &quot;great&quot;.  You can say what you want about movies, but no matter how well they&#39;re made, they should also entertain in some way or another to be classified as great. And I&#39;m not one of those guys who only like action movies. An example of a great movie is Requiem for a Dream. It&#39;s disturbing, repulsive and scary as h*ll, but I couldn&#39;t keep my eyes from it, and it made a brutal impression. Other examples of movies that are deep, makes an impression AND are entertaining could be One flew over the Cuckoos Nest, The Visitor, American Beauty and Eternal Sunshine of a Spotless Mind.  But entertainment isn&#39;t all. I see that. If Citizen Kane had made an impression it wouldn&#39;t fail no matter how uninteresting. Taxi Driver is another movie I bored me through, and don&#39;t want to see again, but still I find it good because I couldn&#39;t stop thinking about it afterwards. It made an impression. Citizen Kane doesn&#39;t do that either.  And to all you die-hard-fans who hate me, wants to disgrace me, and finds it horrendous to call a classic &quot;not entertaining&quot; I&#39;ll just quote the great Ingmar Bergman: &quot;Citizen Kane is a total bore!&quot; To call me retarded or something like that would be to call one of the greatest directors of all time the same. In addition it&#39;s clear that many more agree as well. It&#39;s not long since the feature was in the top 3 on IMDb. Today it&#39;s number 29.  So all in all, I may not know how to judge objective qualities of movies, but I&#39;m certain that movies that doesn&#39;t leave any impression whatsoever AND isn&#39;t entertaining at all aren&#39;t great no matter what. And that&#39;s why &quot;the greatest movie ever made&quot; fails for me. 3/10"
"For the life of me, I have tried hard to understand how and why this movie could possibly be considered the #1 film in the first 100 years of American film-making. The first time I tried to watch it, I got a few minutes and hated it; I couldn&#39;t make myself care. I tried again, because it&#39;s a &quot;classic&quot; made by a &quot;genius&quot;, and I sincerely wanted to understand how it could possibly be voted higher than Casablanca.  It is boring and noisy and the makeup is horrible. I will never understand why this movie was voted #1. I wouldn&#39;t even put it in the top 100.  It has failed in every way a film can fail. I don&#39;t care about the protagonist. I find it clich&eacute;, obnoxious and dull. Perhaps in its day it was fresh, but it doesn&#39;t stand the test of time the way Casablanca does.  I don&#39;t care what anyone else says about this movie; in my opinion, it is the worst thing a movie can be: boring. I will never force myself to watch it again."
"OK so you&#x27;ve watched the movie and saw that its terrible and wanted to see what other people think or you&#x27;re reading reviews before you watch it and you find people giving it 10 stars for the saw called amazing &#x22;cinematography&#x22; well its not only you who hated this movie i hate it too as well as many others this movie is completely dull and boring !!! I wasted 2 hours of my life, i read reviews before i watched it and saw that some people hated it, i slept when i came to watch it the first time so i said maybe i was tired that day but i gotta admit i slept really good while the movie was still running. Next day i thought that i maybe should watch it again but it was still boring i mean how more pathetic can a movie be !! This movie should never be on the top !! It should be on top of the IMDb&#x27;s Bottom 100 list !! I regret watching this movie, if you haven&#x27;t watched it yet i advice you NOT to watch it ! its PATHETIC !"
"After being bored out of my skull, I decided to go to the DVD store to rent out some classic movies. I thoroughly enjoyed Jaws, Rear Window, and Casablanca. But when it came to this movie, which was praised by critics, I was asleep because Orson Welles let me down with his acting. Also, the movie didn&#39;t know when to stop, and for some reason just seemed to go on and on and on and on, not to mention how pointless the ending was. Number one film of all time nothing. The Godfather, The Shawshank Redemption, Casablanca, Star Wars Episode V, all exceed this film, in every single way possible. This film just didn&#39;t move me like it moved the critics, who are insane to have even given it an A grade because it was pathetic. 4/10"
"I was reading the list of the top movies one evening on the AFI, and I saw this movie was #1 American Film. So I decided I would rent it and I saw it today. I was expecting to be blown away and this would be the best movie I would ever see. Well was I in for a surprise.  This movie is by far one of the worst films I have ever seen in my life. The worst would have to be Zigfield Follies but this comes pretty close. I do like and enjoy classic films. I don&#39;t care if a movie is in B&amp;W either. But this movie is just dated, and I don&#39;t see what the hype is about. This movie is just 100% overrated. I am someone who can sit through movies but this one I got bored of.  I thought maybe it was because I got interrupted in the beginning of the film, and maybe it would get better later on. Well it just kept dragging. So I got to basically the last 36min of the film and had to just turn it off. So a few hours later I figured I would try to watch it again, but I couldn&#39;t even watch 5min. I just went to the last 10min of the movie and was disappointed.  All I can say is watch this movie at your own risk, and I hope you enjoy it more then me. Seeing the reviews on here I feel good I am not the only person who didn&#39;t enjoy it."
"Yet another movie that people pretend to like just to be like sheep and follow everybody else. The story is terrible and boring. I honestly nearly swallowed my tongue and died when i saw this was in the top 30 movies of all time. Some of the movies it is rated above is just ridiculous. People need to start making their own minds up instead of following others. The Dark Knight was a great movie, but come on people, do you really think its the 3rd best movie of all time. Thats another example of people rating it highly based on other peoples views. Its got nothing on The Shawshank Redemption. I wish they could sometimes re-release movies and erase their history, so everyone can have a blank slate and see what it really gets."
"I really can&#x27;t find anything in &#x22;Citizen Kane&#x22; worth liking. Do I see what the big fuss is about? Sure. And it is one of the best looking and most well made film of the 40s (from what I&#x27;ve seen. I admittedly don&#x27;t watch many films from the 40s, because of bad experiences with &#x22;great&#x22; films such as this). &#x22;Citizen Kane&#x22; is a monumental achievement because of some of the technical aspects. I have no reason to watch &#x22;Citizen Kane&#x22; ever again though. I don&#x27;t particularly like any of the acting, and the story is just dull to me. I don&#x27;t watch movies for editing, camera work, lighting or technical achievements. Those aspects of filmmaking certainly can greatly help or hurt a film, but without a good script, and without good acting, you just have a good-looking movie. That&#x27;s the case with &#x22;Citizen Kane.&#x22; Supremely directed and extremely well crafted for its time, but I just didn&#x27;t care for the man or the exposition of most scenes.   A lot of directors can make a good-looking film, and a lot have. The remake of &#x22;All the King&#x27;s Men&#x22; is wonderfully shot, but the movie is a complete mess that is just butchered by the director (most noticeably the atrocious casting and the shampoo commercial-esque editing). &#x22;All the King&#x27;s Men&#x22; does have a good performance from Penn, but that&#x27;s about it. Other than that? It is a terrible movie. &#x22;Citizen Kane&#x22; is not that bad and Welles&#x27; direction is far better, but I think it&#x27;s a similar case were two movies look a lot better than anything that&#x27;s happening between the characters, or within the story. The characters might be exquisitely framed, but I just didn&#x27;t care what they had to say.   It is masterfully made for its time and it is a greatly influential film. That&#x27;s what it is remembered for and what it was always be remembered for. Rosebud comes second. If you rate a movie purely on direction, then you probably give it a high score. If you don&#x27;t, then your taste will dictate how effective it was. For me, &#x22;Citizen Kane&#x22; is another major disappointment to add to the heap of &#x22;disappointing classics.&#x22;"
"I watch movies constantly, an i rarely see movies that i have troubles watching all the way through. For one of my classes at school, i needed to watch afi&#39;s top 10 movies. This movie was ranked at number one and I have no idea why. This movie was so boring I had to watch it several times because i kept falling asleep and missing certain parts. Fine, it was clever having Rosebud, and the importance of youth, but i felt that this is an example of a movie, that could be told in about 5 minutes, rather than stretching it out into one of the longest and most boring movies that i have ever seen. Now, i was also shocked at the acting. i generally find that acting supports a relatively weak script, however in this movie&#39;s case, i felt that the relatively weak script was supporting the awful acting. i personally was not very impressed with the acting strictly because the reactions felt very forced and everything was very overdone. all in all i was not impressed at all with this film, regardless of past ratings."
"A technical masterpiece, making it a must see at least once in one&#x27;s life. Watch it as a film-study exercise, but not as the great film it is claimed to be.  We follow the life of Charles Foster Kane, a fictionalized character based on the life of William Randolph Hurst. There are strong performances in the film, magnificent use of shadows, angles, sets, as well as the fact that Orson Welles wrote, directed, starred in and had complete control over editing it. (This was unheard of at the time. But this was not really the first independent film production. Look to Howard Hughes and John Ford for this.)   Good or great film-making is ultimately about story telling. For me, a film that moves me emotionally and/or intellectually, employs subtlety rather than insulting my intelligence, has true-to-life characters, presents believable situations, can be enjoyed over and over again, and stands the test of time, earns such praise. I confess that I do prefer to have a strong reaction to the main character, be it empathy, hatred, love or disgust, and some understanding and sympathy of motives. I am well aware that there are people whom are extremely difficult to completely understand, (John Ford, for example), but they are not a complete mystery.  I originally saw this film about 25 years ago. As a college student, I was very quick to parrot traditional perceptions and said, &#x22;Great flick!&#x22; rather than form my own opinion. I recently re-watched it, and am quite content to wait another 25 or more years before doing so again. When the audience has to don deep-sea diving gear to attempt to understand something about the character via interpretation rather than subtlety, then the film missed the mark. The only character I found evoking any emotion, empathy or real comprehension was Kane&#x27;s second wife. The film ended without any real understanding of Kane or his why his final words are what they are, nor do you care.  Study the cinematography once in you life. But that&#x27;s quite sufficient."
"Citizen Kane is about the life of a notorious media mogul. Based on the life of an actual person, this film takes us through his life as he finds love, power,etc. Considered as one of the best motion pictures of all time and granted the tittle of technically brilliant.  To me this film was bad. It might have been brilliant in terms of art, direction and on a technical level but, all of those aspects make a movie great? The answer is no. I think most people pretend to like this film just because is supposed to be great. Don&#x27;t get me wrong, I think I can appreciate its achievement in the aspects I mentioned above, but the merits of this self-indulgent film end there. It was really boring, the plot was just average and the acting was terrible. I really hated Kane&#x27;s wife. Comingore was a lousy actress, her accent was bad and all the emphasis she put when her character asked questions was like torture.  As I said before, this movie is so self-indulgent that it almost feels like Welles knew beforehand all the praise he would receive in the future. What I can&#x27;t believe is that this film is often compared to Casablanca (Well, compete would be more accurate) when people talk about classics. That was a great movie and there&#x27;s no way this film can compete with it.  I don&#x27;t recommend this title to anyone, unless you claim to be a film lover. In that case you should see it just because it is &#x22;the best movie of all times&#x22;. You will judge if that is correct or not after you saw it."
"I rate &quot;Citizen Kane&quot; 4/10 and that too just for the ONLY 3 best things about this Movie - Cinematography, Acting &amp; the suspense about 'Rosebud'.  After understanding &quot;Citizen Kane&quot;'s high acclaim &amp; its status as one of the finest movie ever made, I was very curious to see this Film. I was definitely disappointed by far end. Indeed its boring especially in first half &amp; has some very inconsistent characterization &amp; scripting. Many things remain unexplained.  The Philosophical strength I feel could have been understood by very less number of people because of its inconsistent characterization &amp; many loose ends.  Its a story about Charles Kane who becomes heir to huge wealth when he was a child. Kane when grows up, instead of investing in Gold Mines or getting professional consultancies for his investments, intends to run a Newspaper company &amp; starts endowing his wealth in it. Here is where Kane is shown as a Non-greedy, humble &amp; wise person who aims to reach his readers with the best &amp; truthful News, which he &amp; his team can. But at the same time we learn later, that he is self-centered some times. He spends his wealth in a monumental palace known as Xanadu &amp; disregards the aspirations of his wife. At one point he is shown wise, ambitious &amp; a person who plan things &amp; achieves success. On other side we see that nothing works good for him as he keeps failing in later part of his life. Not because of just some ill-fate, but because of some motivation &amp; intelligence aspects which he was capable to do at some points but never attempts to do. Its a major contradiction in his characterization.  We learn that Charles Kane was just a Tycoon because of his wealth which he inherited. Whereas he was absolutely incapable of monumenting or expanding his empire. His approach to get involve in politics was for betterment of people &amp; not for any status benefits. Just when he met Susan Alexander (a small time singer), everything after that turns wrong. He marries her &amp; things turn worst. He looses the election, incurs huge losses in Newspaper business &amp; finally we see him settled down in his Xanadu living his last days. After Susan leaves him, Charles die with his last words &quot;Rosebud&quot;.  One thing is sure, We are never allowed to get into the character of Kane. Whoever saw this movie, cannot tell what kind of person was Charles Kane. This I feel is a definite Script error for Characterisation. Orson Welles instead spent much of his ideas &amp; efforts in Art Direction &amp; Cinematography. But that does not solve purpose. We are talking about movies, which means entertainment. Where is the Substance? Where is the intensity &amp; drama &amp; understanding of the characters ? We know that he runs a Newspaper Company. The Scenes concerning only shows how Kane counts his number of readers &amp; how he throws party. What about his involvement &amp; personal approaches which boosted his business ? What Speciality does Kane have ?? There is no answer to this. No Salient Features about Newspaper Company is shown !! The First half is boring, but the second half gains some intensity. We slightly get gripped with it. The second half, when Kane's bad fate begins to overcome his life. Kane tries high to captivate success for his new love. He builds Opera for her but she was not skilled enough to hold the audience's applaud. She fails. But that failure was of Kane. His decisions never fruitified. He keeps failing. Things go wrong &amp; one his best friend who worked for the Newspaper, too leaves him.  But characterization.... still a problem. While watching the movie we get discomfort that Hey Man ... somewhere something is lacking !!! The Story just donot land up in right corner. There is no emotional bond created with the audience. We do not feel any relishment while watching the friendships &amp; love relationships which Kane tries to maintain with various other characters. Although Charles Kanes emotions are tried to be reflected but we feel that it must've became a struggle for Orson Welles.  I cannot land up in a right corner about this Movie. Of course it is Overrated, but narrating some good points &amp; bad points are necessary.  Plus Points : 1. Cinematography : In word is Excellent. 2. Kane's Psychological behavior : His Ego during break off with his Friend Leland / His belief &amp; Self-Satisfaction for his Performing Wife, Susan. 3. Acting : I feel Orson Welles' Act as Citizen Kane is one of the finest amongst any classic movies.  4. The Suspense about Rosebud : It absolutely justifies the Psychological realization of the dying Charles Kane.  5. An innovative Non-Linear Story telling which probably was influential attribute during those days.   6. And the Best Scene of the Movie : The Night of the Opera - No words to describe it.  Bad Points : 1. Inconsistent Characterisation of Charles Kane 2. Weak briefing about the Working Pattern / Sources of Revenue &amp; Team Work of the Newspaper Company 3. Boring first half 4. Very Bad Performance by Dorothy as Susan Kane 4. Xanadu scenes which were over directed &amp; the reasoning of Charles Kane's decision to live in Xanadu which was not shown 5. Some pathetic scenes like Jigsaw Puzzle 6. Lengthy 7. Poor dialogs etc. etc. &amp; many other bad points.  Finally, Citizen Kane MAY BE a story about a Person who is like any common man. His incapability for being a Tycoon &amp; governing Monetary interests formed his down-to-earth personality which also becomes the reason for his failure like how Orson Welles failed in this over - directed project now an overrated classic !"
"I&#39;m sorry for saying this but, in my opinion there are much better films. And for people who think this is just The Best, please don&#39;t just go off talking about how wrong i am or how i don&#39;t know anything. I&#39;m not saying it was bad, cause i did enjoy it, I&#39;m just stating that I&#39;ve seen much better films. MUCH better films, like Chinatown and The Shawshank Redemption. But in my opinion, picking the best film of all time is difficult but i think it could&#39;ve gone to a better film.  I mean, i frankly didn&#39;t like Orson Welles. At all. He was just extremely annoying at parts, and i know that the character wasn&#39;t meant to be the greatest guy in the world, or a good guy at all, but listening to Orson Welles and also knowing he directed it gave me a bit of a headache. I mean whats the point of giving his film &quot;Greatest Film of All Time&quot; if he doesn&#39;t even appreciate the film industry. To me, its just mocking other better films and directors. Thus, i change my mind, i don&#39;t really like Citizen Kane. AT ALL."
"This movie is critically acclaimed as the greatest movie of all time. In addition to critical opinions, it is ranked 33 in the top 250. I went into this film, fully expecting to be blown away by the acting, plot, storytelling, and music. I was none of these things. I have no complaints with the acting, and the story is told effectively through the use of flashback.  The music is for the most part not bad, although it does not set the mood as effectively as the works of John Williams or Bernard Herrmann (Alfred Hitchcock), nor is it integral to the movie like the works of Danny Elfman (Tim Burton) or Enrico Morricone (Sergio Leone). One song in the middle of the film is supposed to be a composition written for Welles&#x27; character, and it is atrocious. I won&#x27;t criticize the operatic parts, as they are intentionally sub par. All in all, the music is unremarkable.  Where this movie really fails is the plot. It is the most boring movie I have ever seen. Many movies, such as &#x22;12 Angry Men,&#x22; contain no action, yet rank among the greatest and most captivating movies ever made. This movie is not one of them. The plot drags at a snails pace, and not very interesting in the first place. A few things are well done, such as the slow reveal of Kane&#x27;s first relationship, and the twist at the end with Rosebud is impressive, but hardly enough to save the movie.  Many people call Citizen Kane timeless. I disagree. While the media still exercises considerable power today, the very way we access information has changed in the digital age. However, the death of newspapers does not kill this movie, as by that logic, any period piece would bore audiences. What kills this movie is how boring the plot is. I found myself not caring about 20 minutes into the movie. By the end of the movie, I cared even less. This movie is terrible, and though I speak against the widely accepted critical opinion of it, I am not afraid to say it because I truly believe that this movie ranks with the worst of them. I would rather watch Manos the Hands of Fate, because at least with that movie I can laugh at how bad it is. With Citizen Kane I can only cry."
"OK,i&#39;m certain i&#39;m in the minority here,but whatever.i did not like Citizen Kane.first off,i didn&#39;t think it was profound at all.i also didn&#39;t think the look of the film was that great.many people say it has a great visual style,but i disagree completely.how this movie is number one all time on some lists is beyond me.to say this movie was a drag is understating things.there was and is too much hype for this movie.so it&#39;s directed by and stars Orson Welles.even worse is Welles is widely regarded as a genius as a result.big hairy deal.i was bored out of my skull.considering this movie is considered sacred and any negative comment is blasphemy,i&#39;m glad nobody knows where i live,otherwise i fear i may be hunted down and killed.not too many people are likely to pay attention to this comment,but i don&#39;t care.this is how i feel about Citizen Kane.maybe i&#39;m a complete idiot,or maybe i&#39;m just missing something.either way,this movie rates a 3/10 at best."
"I found Citizen Kane to be rather boring. The story sort of ends where it begins and plays a back seat to the overbearing message the film is forcing on the viewer. The emotions didn&#x27;t feel genuine or powerful enough to support that message and move me in any significant way.  The time line felt sloppy. At some points, too slow. At others, too fast. The film climaxed after a &#x22;fast forward&#x22; of what seems like several decades. You have to appreciate the film&#x27;s point of witnessing Kane&#x27;s transformation from one person into another but the road to do so feels like it&#x27;s full of potholes and shortcuts.   I feel critic&#x27;s praise for it&#x27;s &#x22;revolutionary&#x22; accomplishments for the era it was produced in is well deserved but unfairly considered for the &#x22;Best Movie of All Time&#x22; title. I didn&#x27;t find anything about Citizen Kane to be remarkable other than it&#x27;s ability to stand out against other films of the era."
"I had my phase of being a pretentious elitist armchair film critic but that&#x27;s over now, I&#x27;ve grown out of it. Back then I would have given this film 10 stars and agree blindly with the snobs that this is the greatest movie ever made. But not today, today I will be honest with myself.  The story is not engaging. There have been other movies since with similar arcs that do a better job. Same with the use of the MacGuffin. Some of the acting is poor. The pacing is too slow. And before anyone says I was predisposed to hate old movies, I actually loved Casablanca.  This isn&#x27;t a terrible movie by all means, it&#x27;s just mediocre. I would never recommend it to any of my friends, unless the have insomnia. I just had to get this one out of the way for my bucket list."
"I watched this film expecting something great. After all, it is regularly labelled as the best film ever made. Well, it&#x27;s not even close. I find it strange how so many people are scared to go against the grain and say it how it is. This film is an overlong snore-fest with no interesting characters. It&#x27;s the story of one man&#x27;s life. But his life isn&#x27;t interesting at any point and certain scenes drag on. There is nothing to keep the viewer gripped to the story. OK, there are a few nice camera techniques, but wake up folks! Literally. Because many of you will fall asleep during this garbage. How this film is so popular is utterly baffling. It stresses the reality that people are sheep. Tell &#x27;em it&#x27;s good and they believe it.  As for the cast, there are a couple of really grating characters &#x96; second wife &#x22;Susan&#x22; as played by Dorothy Comingore and Everett Sloane who plays Mr Bernstein - what horrible whining, shouty voices.  I sat through this film but it gave me very little in terms of entertainment. Time for the charity shop."
"That about sums up my reaction to this manipulative film that so obviously wants to be intriguing. I suppose that in the era when this film was made, there was some good reason for supposing audiences would be enthralled to learn the inner goings-on for a famous and powerful man such as Kane. Those days are gone and I must report that everyone I know considers this film a dinosaur and utterly lacking in both plausibility and attractiveness. The very last thing I will do is to sit around attempting to learn the wheres and why-fores about a completely fictional person who I couldn&#x27;t care less about. Kane was an unimportant nothing, in my book, be he fictional or the representation of someone real. The supposedly enthralling &#x22;Rosebud&#x22; clue was almost an insult to my intelligence - an obvious gimmick to hook the viewer. And in the end, it was nothing more than a cheap sham. For this film era, might I recommend a good Charlie Chan film?"
I found this movie to be overrated. It was good but I didn&#x27;t think It was a contender for best movie or anything. The movie was very slow at parts but I did enjoy the beginning and how it starts off when he is old and goes back from there.  My favorite scene in the movie was when he took a stand at the news paper. He refused to be bullied into printing what others wanted him to print. money didn&#x27;t matter as long the right thing was talked about and there is just something noble bout that part. it shows a man willing to stand up for what he believes in. Other than that the movie was just OK  The dark lighting was interesting and the movie just was too long.
"Okay, this movie is one of those that makes feel stupid for not being in the unison voice of liking it, and at the same time wondering how the heck can this movie land a top spot of great movie lists. The technicalities do support it&#x27;s status as one of the greats, pioneering those never before seen shots or sequences like the first and last shots, the use of peculiar angles of the cameras, decent effort at age make up, and the use of non linear back and forth story flow styling. But I do agree with those voices that say that the story is entire empty, it does not offer you anything. For me, it&#x27;s better even the one in The Wolf of Wall Street of even The Great Gatsby, for extreme comparisons. I now have a suspicion that this movie&#x27;s story is the one to blame as a subliminal campaign that downgrade the moral of the American people due to focusing on the notion that it&#x27;s okay to get divorced twice as long as you&#x27;re rich or the sort."
"This film is a prime example of the difference between film critics and film watchers. Whilst there is no doubt that the script, acting, cinematography, direction etc are first rate, it&#x27;s actually rather boring. It&#x27;s worth watching once, to see what all the hype is about, but it just doesn&#x27;t have that entertainment value. I&#x27;m probably alone in this view, but if it came out now it&#x27;d most likely bomb at the cinema because it&#x27;s just not watchable enough, particularly for today&#x27;s audiences who only really want to see modern stars they know or special effects and loud explosions ! Maybe my rating of 3 is a bit harsh, but I&#x27;m a great lover of 30s and 40s films, and if you hold this up against, say, The Adventures of Robin Hood, Gone with the Wind, or Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs, it just doesn&#x27;t have that X factor. I&#x27;d be the first to admit it&#x27;s a landmark film, but too many critics still hold a candle up to this film as the ultimate movie experience, but I&#x27;m sorry... it&#x27;s not !"
"I&#x27;ll keep this review brief. I&#x27;ll simply explain why this movie that has been hailed as the best movie ever is not in my opinion: 1) I felt nothing for the main character. I didn&#x27;t care whether he lived or died, if he was successful or failed. I simply could not identify or empathize with him.  2) In line with number one, the movie as a whole did nothing to me emotionally. After watching it I didn&#x27;t feel sad, happy or really any emotion at all and I certainly didn&#x27;t want the story to continue which is one of the most important aspects of a great movie...you simply don&#x27;t want it to end.  Now I&#x27;d be to first to admit that my opinion might be somewhat biased due to the fact that I had seen the movie listed as the best movie of all time according to the AFI&#x27;s 100 top movies of all time. I&#x27;ve noticed that when someone tells me that a movie is excellent before I see it, it usually never lives up to the hype but great movies actually do live up to the hype. Good example would be Titanic.  I&#x27;ll end my review here. I just challenge someone, anyone to simply list out why the reasons why this is the best movie of all time and please don&#x27;t tell me how it revolutionized cinematography, if that&#x27;s the case, the first movie ever made should be the best movie of all time. Story has to count for something and the end of the day, the story of Citizen Kane was just down right boring."
"In the early &#39;70s Citizen Kane became the darling of some NYU film addict class instructors for reasons that defy logic. They wrote papers and articles and that caused a lot of shallow folks to come aboard on the film. However closely examined the movie is greatly overrated. The script is not really one of Herman J. Mankiewicz&#39;s best works, albeit Mankiewicz was a superb screenwriter. (Dinner at Eight, Wizard of Oz, Pride of the Yankees, etc)  The &quot;groundbreaking&quot; camera angles, for example, that are credited to Orson Welles (who was only 25 when he produce-directed it) should really be credited to Gregg Toland the DP on the film. However, Toland, it should be noted, was a student of the early German silent screen where many of the &quot;groundbreaking&quot; camera angles could be seen two decades before Citizen Kane. In fact, before Toland invited Welles over to his home to teach him the camera and how it&#39;s used (days before primary shooting) Welles scarcely knew which end of the camera took light."
I hope that one day I will witness this movie being moved down from the number one spot. I love movies old and new. I have studied this one in school and watched it a dozen or more times and for the life of me I can&#x27;t understand why it remains in the number one spot of all American movies ever made. The only explanation I can come up with is that people are afraid of change and new things and nostalgically cling to the days that were once so simple that this movie stood out in comparison. Times have changed and I would like to think that we have and can do much much better than CK. Its a great classic but it&#x27;s not the best. We all need to stop kidding ourselves.
"Given the legendary status of this film I was expecting something special. It isn&#x27;t.  The acting is mixed, Welles is excellent in the lead role but others, in particular Comingore, are wooden at best.  It is very dated in it&#x27;s style and feels sluggish and melodramatic, the newsreel style is quite annoying.  I can, sort of, see why it was a classic in it&#x27;s day but it is definitely showing it&#x27;s age.  There is no empathy generated or emotion of any sort evoked by the events and the whole thing left me bored.  It might be worth watching as a curiosity but not for any real enjoyment."
"Pick up any guide about movies, particularly one written by a professional movie critic, and &quot;Citizen Kane&quot; is rated the best or near the top of the list of movies ever made.  There is no question that Orson Welles coalesced many film-making techniques of the thirties, as well as innovations of his own, in producing &quot;Citizen Kane&quot;.  Additionally, at the time of release in 1941, there was great pressure brought to bear on Welles and the studio not to put the film out due to its (fictionalized) portrayal of powerful publisher William Randolph Hearst.  All very admirable, but does it make for a great movie?  Not in my opinion.  The story itself is not all that remarkable.  The characters, including Kane, are not overly engaging and I never found myself caring what happened to any of them.  Parts of the film are staggeringly boring.  It takes a good 15 minutes for the plot -- or what there is of a plot -- to get moving. Yes, certain techniques of directing, camera angles, flashbacks, and the like, are interesting from a scholarly viewpoint. However, the real interest of a dramatic film should come from interesting characterizations, a good story, and tension amongst the characters.  In these critical areas, &quot;Citizen Kane&quot; is sorely lacking.  Watch this movie if you are a film scholar, professional or amateur, or if you want to see what all the fuss is about. In my opinion, this film is wildly overrated."
"After learning that this is rated &#x22;the best movie of all time&#x22; in many surveys, I decided to watch it. I am confused who voted this the best movie, this movie is a nightmare. It is very boring and the story is so ordinary. It took me three days to finish watching it, after going to sleep the first two days. I kept at it expecting something interesting might happen, but nothing happens right till the end. Even the ending, which is supposed to reveal something enlightening, is very lame. Watching birds and squirrels is more interesting than watching this movie. Save your time and energy, avoid this movie, unless you want some frustration in your life."
"First of all let me state I love old movies, black and white, Bogart, movies from the 40&#x27;s war movies, westerns etc. I heard about this movie for years and everyone RAVED about it. I thought I&#x27;ve got to see it. So I rented it and watched, and watched and watched and waited for the moment of greatness which never came. The more I watched the worse it got. I thought there must be something terribly wrong with ME. I couldn&#x27;t finish it. It was so bad I couldn&#x27;t take it anymore. I didn&#x27;t understand why didn&#x27;t I like it. It had to be my fault. Then I read the review of one of the earlier posters and she said what I felt but was afraid to say. The movie was awful. It was beyond bad. It was the worst movie ever filmed in all of history and I can safely say there will never be one worse. The only reason I gave it one star is I couldn&#x27;t give it zero. If the military wants to use this film as a substitute for water boarding I promise you they will get everything they want to know from a terrorist simply by strapping them into a chair and making them watch this film. One time will do it. Make them watch it twice and THAT would be inhumane and unspeakable torture."
"I don&#39;t need a lot of action and car chases in order to like a movie. I just need a good script and good acting. This movie had neither. For those who don&#39;t know the premise a group of reporters try to find the meaning of a millionaire&#39;s last word..Rosebud. It&#39;s a good premise, but executed horribly. All of the characters and the actors playing them are dull and unrealistic. The dialogue is boring, and sometimes even laughably bad (&quot;Let&#39;s all go to the window&quot;). The cinematography is simple and dull, and the plot is incredibly predictable. Those who like this movie need some explaining to do. All I&#39;ve heard from them is &quot;you&#39;re an idiot if you don&#39;t like this movie.&quot; Is the only reason these people enjoy Citizen Kane because they&#39;re snobs who are too good for quality cinema? I challenge these people to find one redeemable quality of this atrocious film. Then I might reconsider my position."
"All the pseuds say it; all the polls of the &quot;greatest films ever made&quot; say it: this is the greatest film ever made. Orson Welles, in between mouthfuls, shows his genius once again.  But things are never quite what they seem.  Take all that brouhaha about &quot;The War of the Worlds.&quot; All those people thinking that the Martians had really landed. Or did they? I have heard this play twice, and I have to say that I cannot see anybody being taken in by a radio play that is not particularly good. Indeed when you dig up the contemporary newspapers, you can see a distinct absence of named people; and the articles smack of having been written before the broadcast even went out. At the time, the Mercury Theatre was being threatened with the termination of their radio series: they were that bad! What better to keep them on the air than the biggest load of hype in entertainment history. It is reckoned by some historians that not a single person headed for the hills as a result of this radio programme.  But surely Orson Welles answered his critics in &quot;Citizen Kane.&quot; Didn't he?  Well if taking the story of Hearst, blackening the reputation of Marion Davies, and pinching unusual camera angles from other directors, like Michael Curtiz, is genius, then Orson Welles is a genius and &quot;Citizen Kane&quot; is indeed the greatest film ever known.  It just goes to show that if people go around shilling Orson Welles as a genius, the pseuds will be stupid enough to believe it.  But don't take my word for it. See The Adventures of Robin Hood, which predates Citizen Kane. There you will see all the unusual angles you will wish to see. Curtiz even has a couple of shots taken from the fireplace, the difference between Kane and Robin Hood is that in Robin Hood, the fire is lit. Also in Robin Hood you will see moving camera shots a-plenty, especially in the opening scene in the great hall at Nottingham Castle, which means that the often repeated statement that Orson Welles invented moving camera shots in Citizen Kane is utter drivel. I will repeat it just in case the pseuds miss it yet again: Citizen Kane is NOT the first film to use moving camera shots and Orson Welles did NOT invent this technique.  If you want to call Michael Curtiz a genius, I have no problem with that. He certainly has more right to that appellation than has Orson Welles.  But I can be wrong. And I have been proved wrong. I once said to a friend of mine: &quot;Is it just me, or is Citizen Kane the most overrated film ever made?&quot;  He replied: &quot;You are wrong. Citizen Kane is a great film. whenever it is shown on television, I never sleep better.&quot;  As someone who has fallen asleep in front of Citizen Kane myself, I just had to admit that I was wrong.  And all those people who stayed at home instead of going to the cinema, making Citizen Kane a box-office flop. They were wrong, too.   Or were they?"
"The AFI&#39;s top 100 movies of all time doesn&#39;t have many movies that I disagree with, but I don&#39;t know of a more boring movie than Citizen Kane. I realize that some of the cinematography is considered &quot;revolutionary&quot;, but it was incredibly boring. I wouldn&#39;t rank it in the top 1,000 movies and probably not even in the top 10,000 movies if I&#39;ve actually seen that many movies, but it would take a while to count how many movies I&#39;ve actually seen. If there&#39;s any silver lining to this tediously boring movie, it&#39;s that certain scenes from the movie that have been spoofed more than once on the Simpsons with which they did an excellent job. It was then, and only then that I was glad I had seen it."
"I have no doubt this film remains an ethalon as the artistic form and technicalities are concerned. However, the idea or message of &quot;Citizen Kane&quot; did not convince me. It is an amazing study on the issue of &quot;unhappy most powerful man&quot;. But it hardly is more than a study. I did my best to understand this classic, but still I found the story quite superficial, calculated and cold - too academic in one word. There was no point of the film, where I could really identify myself with the heroes. Maybe the young age of the director was the reason, why he could not get deeper. In my view, it is always a bit &quot;cheap&quot; to demonstrate ideas on lottery winner, millionaires or press moguls. I appreciate more, if values and wisdom are shown in lives of rather normal people, who have to defend their dignity and happiness without having the power of huge cash and media behind them."
"This was one dark and just unhappy film. The poor man&#x27;s life seemed just so angry! This was not an enjoyable film at all! Although, I kinda expected dark and moody and angry from the guy behind the sensational radio incident with The War of the Worlds in 1938. I did like the camera-work, though. Lot of smooth editing transitions. I especially liked the intro scene. The story to find out what Rosebud meant was kinda silly to me, on top of finding out all the dark and angsty things this poor man did and went through. Just, ugh. I don&#x27;t watch movies for angst. Lord knows I have enough of it in my own life. I watch movies for fun diversions from reality and this just didn&#x27;t hold up."
"CITIZEN KANE isn&#x27;t a bad film, per se; it&#x27;s quite watchable, with some engaging characters and a storyline that keeps you guessing. The mystery angle of the narrative is interesting enough to sustain the viewer&#x27;s interest despite the relatively slow pacing. But after watching it, I was left thinking, &#x22;Is that it?&#x22; and &#x22;What&#x27;s all the fuss about?&#x22;.  It&#x27;s a common problem when viewers are first exposed to movies regarded as classics by those who profess themselves to be in the know, and one I&#x27;ve experienced before. Because CITIZEN KANE doesn&#x27;t anywhere near feel like it deserves its one-time reputation as the greatest film ever made. It&#x27;s watchable, but it&#x27;s not even a film I&#x27;d want to watch a second time, now I know what happens. I was looking for extra meaning, for something, but it all feels quite limited and even a little hollow.  Orson Welles&#x27; celebrated stylistic flourishes only really occur in the opening and closing parts of the movie, while the central part of the film is quite ordinary. It&#x27;s good to see the reliable Joseph Cotten in a strong supporting role, but the female characters are overly given to histrionics and there just isn&#x27;t enough depth for my liking. There&#x27;s none of the suspense that Hitchcock would have brought to the table, either, leaving me feeling more than a little disappointed in a film which is nothing like it&#x27;s supposed to be."
"It was screenwriter Herman Mankiewicz&#x27;s loathing and hatred of both William Randolph Hearst and Marion Davies (fuelled by Orson Welles) that brought Citizen Kane to the silver screen.  Though it was a very thinly disguised story about Hearst and Davies, this film&#x27;s underlying viciousness hit so far below the belt that, not only did it portray Hearst as being a pathetic, lonely, ego-centric hoarder and Davies as a nagging, gold-digging, no-talent singer/actress, but it also revealed to the whole world the word &#x22;Rosebud&#x22;.  &#x22;Rosebud&#x22;, which was the final word uttered by Charles Foster Kane, on his death-bed, wasn&#x27;t (in reality) the name of a wooden sleigh that he had cherished so much as a child. No. &#x22;Rosebud&#x22; was actually, in reality, Hearst&#x27;s pet-name for his mistress&#x27;s (Marion Davies) clitoris. (It&#x27;s true. Look it up)  And, of course, the biggest problem with Citizen Kane was that its whole story was literally based on this one, single word &#x22;Rosebud&#x22;.  With most people (back in 1941, and even now) not knowing the real meaning behind this word (it was a Hollywood in-joke), the viewer is forced to have to endure hearing it being spoken umpteen times throughout the course of this 2-hour picture.  Since I am hip (and, so now, you are, too) that &#x22;Rosebud&#x22; really meant Davies&#x27; clitoris, I can&#x27;t begin to tell you how tired I got of hearing that word being spoken by actors who were obviously doing a very good job of concealing their smirks whenever they were required to repeat it.  Knowing the truth about the meaning behind &#x22;Rosebud&#x22;, I think that this truly renders Citizen Kane as being one of the nastiest, most vile &#x22;revenge-movies&#x22; ever made against 2 very real people (who were both still living at the time) that I&#x27;ve ever seen.  I can&#x27;t think of another movie out there that goes so out of its way to make such a sneering mockery of 2 people (in this case Hearst and Davies). Its 2 screenwriters (Welles and Mankiewicz) and its director (Welles again) clearly showed how much deep-rooted contempt that they held for these 2 people, whom they only slightly knew.  And what really surprises me about Citizen Kane is that so many people have fallen all over themselves, claiming it to be one of the very best movies ever made.  I know that this is one of those movies that one&#x27;s not allowed to dislike. But, hey, there&#x27;s nothing wrong with someone just because they say that they don&#x27;t like it.  I&#x27;ll honestly tell you that, aside from some interesting camera shots, and some massive sets, and its big-budget production values, I found Citizen Kane to be really something of a bore and, nope, it actually doesn&#x27;t hold up very well, 72 years later.  *A brief note about screenwriter Herman Mankiewicz* - For most of his adult life he was a miserable drunk (of the mouthy, belligerent kind). During his years in Hollywood (beginning in 1926) he managed to make a lot of enemies and alienate scores of celebrities with his drunken antagonism, including the likes of William Hearst and Marion Davies.  Mankiewicz died in 1953 at the age of 55 from cirrhosis of the liver (a disease caused by alcoholism)."
"I&#x27;ll never understand the praise that this film gets. I can understand the photography was innovative and at times quite stunning for the time period, but other than that I cannot find a way to love this movie.   &#x22;Rosebud&#x22; is perhaps what keeps the audience to stick around through this boring 2 hour movie. The acting is mediocre at best, and the characters are largely flat and lacking a certain depth, emotionally. From the beginning of the film, I could tell where it is going, and I would have a much better time respecting this movie and it&#x27;s somewhat interesting story if it was at least an hour shorter. That way the cinematography could be appreciated, and the meat of the story told, without putting people to sleep."
"Perhaps, I am missing something here but what&#39;s the big fuss regarding &quot;Citizen Kane?&quot; A masterpiece, no way! In 1941 the motion picture academy selected &quot;How Green Was My Valley&quot; as the best picture of the year and this is one person who wholeheartedly agreed with the academy&#39;s decision.  This movie starring Orson Welles as the fictional Charles Foster Kane was not at all interesting, especially when it was supposedly based on the life of William Randolph Hearst. Had they spoken more about the Hearst Newspapers, his castle in San Francisco, and his affair with Marion Davies, we would have had a far better picture.  The picture conveys Kane as an absolute tyrant with a whole host of people around his orbit. Everett Sloane was excellent as Bernstein.  The part I liked best was when Kane thought that he would be elected governor and the disappointment that was etched on his face when this did not occur.  Rosebud..."
One of the movies in my America in film class that we have recently watched was Citizen Kane. For homework I had to get background information for the movie. I read a lot of articles that told me that Citizen Kane was and is the greatest movie in American history. On the day that my class was to watch the movie I was interested to see if those comments were true. Nope. I&#39;m not saying the movie was awful because it wasn&#39;t but I expected a lot more for the greatest movie ever. I think the whole thing with Rosebud was very clever and the camera shots in the movie were exceptional for the time. However the movie was not able to keep my interest. I&#39;m not a big fan of black and white movies to begin with and Citizen kane did not really change my mind. As far as the acting in the movie I was very impressed with Orson Welles as Charles Foster Kane. Jedediah Leland and the reporter for the inquirer were good characters as well. Pretty much every other character in the movie did not hold interest. All and all not a bad movie just not the greatest movie in American film.
"Apparently (since I have not read any..) texts on film universally proclaim this as a masterpiece of technique, an exceptionally daring indictment of Hearst whose suppression of the film has undoubtedly added to its strange mystique. However, what was innovative quickly becomes routine and dated. What was once (overly) clever caricature eventually becomes as unintelligible and irrelevant as Shakespeare's puns. The glaring weakness in Citizen Kane that sets it apart from the handful of films that claim to be great is that it lacks a strong timeless theme. People can still relate to the eternal triangle in Casablanca, or the dutiful nobility of the seven samurai or even the pluckiness of Scarlett O'Hara. In contrast, Kane is neither a great nor likable character. His problems are too distant and portrayed too distantly, to be of much care to the common man. Hence, now that the gaudy trappings have faded, there is no heart and soul to resonate with modern audiences.   To me the film is like the Mona Lisa. Crowds throng around it and gaze admiringly, listening to the commentary on their porta-guides which explain the wondrous techniques employed. Not that it isn't good, but I somehow think that those crowds wouldn't be there, were it not for its reputation and if they were to answer honestly, most would admit that they couldn't see what all the fuss was about..."
"This movie is voted one of the best movies of all time by critics and i just don&#x27;t understand why. The only good part of this movie was the great cinematography but that alone cant make a movie great. Every other aspect of the movie was boring. The actors were awful and the characters they played were even worse, i couldn&#x27;t identify with any of them. The worst part of this movie was with out a doubt the plot, this movie was told mostly in flashbacks and could not hold my interest.This film also just went on and on and was way overdone.Overall this movie was visually pleasing but every other aspect of it just made this movie unbearable to watch."
No this is fare from the best movie ever. I like most that are entertaining. This is BIO movie. And they tend to have no entertainment value at all. This is BIO pick about a man who rain a news paper. About good thing came to him when he was young. And how bad things came to him when he got old. And how he died saying rosebud. Find got the amazing mystery of why he said it. That is if you care boring. Citizen boring that is what they could have called it. I personally do not care why he said rosebud. I could tell you why but I do not like spoilers. All thou I am basically telling you not to see this boring crap. Well save big thrills for people who want to find out. This is one of very fellow movies I have been that looks like a horror movie made in those day but is not a horror movie. The horror movies in those days were great. But there were some boring crap made and this is one of them. Overrated boring crap at that. Good acting. But what a boring movie.
"As you sit in your office, room or coffee shop, as you read this excellent review, you could quiet easily walk out the front door, and stop any passerby and ask them a simple question &#x27;what is the greatest film of all time?&#x27; Some would say the Godfather, others would say Casablanca, but the majority would point to Citizen Kane. Is there a joke the world gets that I don&#x27;t? Is there a massive party that I simply didn&#x27;t get an invasion too? Because I can understand the &#x27;some&#x27; and the &#x27;others&#x27;- but I although I would rather point their attentions to Chinatown or Manhattan for title of greatest ever. But I&#x27;ll let them off just this once. But the overwhelming inclusion of Citizen Kane on lists of the greatest films of all, is frankly ludicrous and a complete and utter head scratcher! Such was the extent of the head scratching I almost bore a hole into my skull. For me Citizen Kane is no more of the greatest film of all time, as much as you could say Zack Effron is great actor. Citizen Kane is simply the most over hyped film in the history of the universe.   Orson Welles produces, writes, directs in this picture as well as playing the title character Charles Foster Kane. A newspaper tycoon who dies almost at the start of the film, and through the eyes of reporters, Kane&#x27;s life is slowly unravelled before our eyes via an anti- chronological narrative. Driven by the desires to discover the significance and meaning behind &#x27;Rosebud&#x27;, the one word Kane utters on his death bed.   Don&#x27;t get me wrong. Citizen Kane on a purely technical endeavour is absolutely superb. With the effective use of innovative angles and stunning manipulation of deep focus lenses too represent the various viewpoints of Citizen Kane on a visual plane is absolutely staggering and ingenious. But despite this people seem to forget that film making is the art of storytelling. I repeat film making is the art of STORYTELLING. True it relies heavily on aesthetics and visuals representation of conveying of said story, but story is still the main event of any film. Narrative is substance and A list stardom whereas the visuals are merely the supporting act.   Although I have to credit Welles on his heavy handed involvement in the film, but I feel the film would have reached greatest heights in my eyes, if he were to have relinquished some of the roles to people of greater experience, because don&#x27;t forget the fact that Orson Welles was merely 25 at the time (Looks like need to get a move on). A fact I believe that might have been the bases of the reasoning behind the decision by American Film Institute (AFI) to place Citizen Kane at number one on their list of 100 greatest American films of all time. Which is insane, just because he was young doesn&#x27;t mean he should receive any preferential treatment. Just because a kid in primary school makes a finger painting, doesn&#x27;t mean is should stand in an art gallery next to a painting by Picasso.   But if Citizen Kane were to still remain on the list of 100 greatest, long after I&#x27;m gone. I&#x27;m adamant it will be of no heroics on Welles part and the story behind Citizen Kane, but more from the hard work of the likes of Gregg Toland (cinematographer) and Robert Wise (Editor) and there technical achievements, that have acted as magicians and tricked the whole world into believing that Citizen Kane is the greatest film of all time &#x96; Dynamo and David Blaine takes some notes, that&#x27;s what I call real magic!"
"Despite all the hype and raving reviews from film critics like Pauline Kael, I found &#x22;Citizen Kane&#x22; to be too contrived, stilted, unreal, as if I were reading a classic comic book. The gimmicks with lighting and camera angles added to this comic-book presentation of the picture as well.  The film fails emotionally. One does not feel for the central character or any of the characters, in fact. The closest it comes to the portrayal of a human connection is when Kane fires his college chum from one of his newspapers. And there it ends. Even when Kane dies, we cannot feel anything for this man. And the biggest gimmick of all contrived by Wells was the &#x22;rosebud&#x22; mystery. According to Gore Vidal, Hearst referred to Davies most private part with this term. How can the viewer connect emotionally to this gimmick, more appropriate for a hoochie-coochie carnival act than a work of art.  Too stylized, too detached, too contrived, too gimmicky leaves the viewer unable to suspend disbelief and experience the reality of the story. Welles played with his audience, as he did in &#x22;War of the Worlds&#x22;, like a smart-alecky kid. Consequently, reviews by critics extolling this film as the greatest film of all time have left me doubting their artistic credentials.  Trust me, you won&#x27;t be re-watching this film over and over; however, it is worth a first viewing."
"Citizen Kane is one of the most overrated movies of all time. I admit my skepticism is biased but i have good cause; To begin i would point out that this movies is utterly boring and since the point of a movie is to entertain this movie fails. Don&#39;t get me wrong, i enjoy some pretty &quot;boring&quot; films such as Stalker, but this movie truly offers me nothing entertaining. Although Citizen Kane is meant to be an insightful look into a mans life, it really isn&#39;t. All dialog is witty and sharp in a way completely lacks any human emotion. The way in which Kane&#39;s life is examined is done so in such a disconnected way that no sense of meaning can be taken from it. All in all it is a very vague, long, and boring movie presented in a way that reminds me of old time radio broadcasting where a blunt story is relayed through a series of even more blunt sound effects only in this instance blunt images are used.  Why is it rated so good then? The true reason is that Citizen Kane was a stepping stone in cinematography and special effects. Considering this aspect i can understand why it may have been revolutionary at the time; But in the modern day, it seems like nothing special."
"&quot;I am, have been, and always will be one thing&#150;an American!&quot; says Charles Foster Kane (Orson Welles) at the beginning of the new motion picture Citizen Kane. Buckle your lap belt because this will be the most entertaining portion of the entire film.  Citizen Kane tells the story of Charles Foster Kane, a multimillionaire newspaper magnate and his death. Depressing already, I know. But when his final word is &quot;Rosebud,&quot; everything shakes up a little bit. One reporter is determined to find out the meaning behind this word and how it relates to the life of Charles Foster Kane. As things unravel and unfold, the mystery becomes clear.  Directed by Orson Welles, a.k.a. the actor who played Charles Foster Kane himself might suggest something. Welles has directed two films before this&#150;and acted in both of them! In The Hearts of Age (1934), Welles played the character named Death. Also, in 1938, he directed Too Much Johnson and was Keystone Kop. In addition, Welles has contributed to the Swiss Family Robinson as an uncredited voice narration. Although, Welles seemed comfortable with the character and acting while having a great sense of humor.  Other acting included Joseph Cotten (Too Much Johnson) and newcomers to the motion picture industry Everett Sloane and Agnes Moorehead. I believe we will be seeing much more of these two in the future.  Cinematographically, the movie was narrated in chapters, which made it easier to follow. Adding a challenge to the movie was the never-ending flashbacks that could throw you off. There was the ever-popular fading in and out of scenes and creative camera angles that would grab the viewer into the movie. One major camera transition from the outside rain into a bar really flabbergasted me. I was thoroughly impressed.  In conclusion, Kane did not affect me. The acting was young, the plot was not easily understandable, parts were left bare and some parts of the movie were left on a limb. Also, many character's faces were left dark. This could be taken as a signature from the director, and brilliant at that, but it was not necessary for this particular movie.  I would only recommend this movie to someone who enjoys looking way beyond the face of movies. It is very political and difficult to follow. If you are in that mood and can handle back-and-forth movies, take a gander at this one. Otherwise, you may want to stay far, far away."
"Herman J. Mankiewicz's script proves amusing at times, and once affecting, when an elderly character, Bernstein, talks about the strange things one sometimes remembers in life. As a young man he glimpsed a girl in a white dress carrying a white parasol as, crossing over to Jersey, his ferry passed hers ... and he has never forgot  her.  'Citizen Kane' is ornately yet coldly technical ... too full of itself ... and often stilted and tedious. Typifying this style, the actors, particularly Orson Welles, are gratingly charmless. I don't exactly dislike the film, but I don't like it much either. Sort of a strong indifference."
"It has all the elements that makes a picture great and yet I found it incredibly boring.  I'm sorry, but the story did not have enough to keep my interest.  Historically, it was a very important film and broke ground for future narratives, but I am happy I will only have to sit through it once in my life. Sorry."
"and missed the point(s) of this film. I think I saw it back in 1986 in film class...and presumably fell asleep (no offense Orsy, that was the beauty of film class). Then I saw it again in a hip, small, theater in my &#x22;I love films (not &#x22;movies&#x22;)&#x22; phase back in 2001 and pretended to get it. Saw it again a few years ago in what I now realize is the best of situations; hungover, reclined, and full of delivery pizza. That time, I almost enjoyed it since I expected absolutely nothing and it delivered.  As much as I want to be a part of the cinema elite and understand this film&#x27;s importance and beauty and style and intrigue and intellect and symbolism; I have come to realize it just ain&#x27;t gonna happen. So, I have resigned myself to believing that movies that I can and will continue to watch over and over again (such as &#x22;Goodfella&#x27;s&#x22;, &#x22;Planes, Trains and..&#x22;, &#x22;Shawshank&#x22;, &#x22;48 Hours&#x22;, &#x22;Trading Places&#x22;, &#x22;Godfather&#x22;, &#x22;A Fish Called Wanda&#x22;, &#x22;High Fidelity&#x22;, &#x22;Fast Times @ RHS&#x22;, &#x22;Caddyshack&#x22;, &#x22;Office Space&#x22;, &#x22;Groundhog&#x27;s Day&#x22;, &#x22;Kingpin&#x22; (only because of Bill Murray), &#x22;Rushmore&#x22;, &#x22;Seven&#x22;, &#x22;Swingers&#x22; and &#x22;Spinal Tap&#x22;) shall heretofore (usage?) be this movie watcher&#x27;s &#x22;classics&#x22;."
"Since hearing Woody Allen say that he has not written or directed anything as good as Citizen Kane, I decided to rent the movie. I have also heard that CK is one of the greatest movies of all time if not the greatest. However, after watching it I&#39;m shocked to find that I was not as moved or touched or enlightened as I thought I&#39;d be. I was expecting more of a deep emotional movie that would leave me with a feeling of wow such as Schindler&#39;s list. I feel that Woody Allen has written good stuff that has more general human relating qualities than CK. Although 1941 is before my time and there may be some elements in the movie that are beyond me it was definitely not the greatest movie of all time!"
"Honestly, the mere fact that this movie is ranked so high by so many people and organizations just proves that behind the greediness of Hollywood lies a smug bunch of people who consider themselves more artsy and intellectual than everyone else in America. Unless they grew up during the great depression, they didn&#39;t actually enjoy this movie and the only reason that they move it to the top of their list is because everybody else has and they think that by not having it up there others will see them as being less artistically advanced. This movie may have been great when only 5 movies were being made in Hollywood per year, but since then hundreds of movies have been whose quality far surpasses that of Citizen Kane."
"Who hasn't heard Kane hailed as the 'greatest film ever made'??  Having heard this 1,000 times, I watched Kane with high expectations.  All I saw was average character and plot development covered up by above average (pretty excellent, actually) cinematography (which, let's admit, is fairly dated by today's standards).  Yes, it was a ground breaking movie.  Yes, it inspired filmmakers all over the planet.  Yes, it changed the industry. Even admitting all this, I still feel that Kane is over-rated.  There have been much greater films made in recent times.  To call Kane the 'best film ever' is to do so for nostalgic reasons and to ignore that better films have come along since.  I can't pick 'the best film ever made' but I can list some that are better than Citizen Kane.  How about The Godfather, Schindler's List, Gone With the Wind, Forrest Gump, or even American Beauty? These could all out shine Citizen Kane any day."
"So here I am finally watching THE GREATEST MOVIE EVER MADE and the one question that plagues my mind is, &quot;that's it???&quot;  Okay, before everyone gangs up on me, I'm not saying that &quot;Kane&quot;, THE BEST, GREATEST, AND MOST UNDENIABLY GOOD MOVIE OF ALL TIME, isn't well made or anything.  It is a very good movie and it held my attention and I enjoyed it.  But the thing is, anytime anyone talks about this movie, all you hear is how &quot;Citizen Kane&quot; is DOUBTLESS THE GREATEST MOVIE IN THE KNOWN UNIVERSE, START BOWING TO IT, KID!  It's impossible to get that kind of hype out of your head, and I couldn't get around the fact that this is supposed to be some kind of INCREDIBLE AND FANTASTIC DEITY AMONG MOVIES.  Frankly, I was disappointed.  &quot;Citizen Kane&quot; IS a good movie.  I might go so far as saying that it's a great movie.  But the BEST MOVIE EVER?  I don't know..."
"Citizen Kane is pretty good for about the first 50 minutes and then it goes at a very slow, boring pace.  I can't stand opera which made this even less interesting.  I almost dozed off in the middle of what I call the most overrated movie of all time!!!"
"Many times I've been tempted to watch 'Citizen Kane' just to analyze why so many consider it the greatest film of all time. No more than twenty minutes go by and I find myself BORED by this so-called classic. I have to admit I am not a fan of Orson Welles and always thought there was a bit of the smokehouse ham about all his larger than life performances--be it 'Macbeth' or Rochester in 'Jane Eyre' or the attorney in 'Compulsion'. But it is much more than just not liking Welles. I find there is a pretentiousness, an artificiality about the whole film. It's trying so hard to be symbolic about the &quot;true meaning of life&quot;, much the way 'American Beauty' attempted to show us that there is beauty in a plastic bag floating in the wind. 'Rosebud' is just as simplistic--quite a letdown, in my opinion, to discover that a child's sled is at the seat of the mystery surrounding Kane. Frankly, I just don't get it. What is so profound about this film that historians say it should be shown to young filmmakers as an example of great story-telling? I would rather succumb to the charms of 'How Green Was My Valley' (also in 1941) which took prize as the Best Film of 1941 than have to view this depressing piece of cinema that is supposed to be a thinly disguised portrait of William Randolph Hearst. Intellectuals may love 'Citizen Kane' and AFI must have a number of them on their voting board--but it does not deserve the high ranking they've given it. In my humble opinion, it fails to be even credible. The direction is self-consciously arty (see those unusual camera angles) and the acting sometimes borders on the ludicrous. Does not stand the test of time."
"Why this movie gets any hoopla or adulation is beyond me. It&#39;s not that its bad or terrible (oh sure that&#39;s part of it-just kidding it&#39;s just forgettable and mediocre not terrible although it is terribly, terribly disappointing} it&#39;s just not memorable in any way and you would expect a movie of this hype to at least be good or have some memorable scenes. The majority of the movie revolves around the life and career of a newspaper editor/owner if that doesn&#39;t give you pause nothing will. What&#39;s next?-a 3 hour bio of a CPA or the long arduous tale of the life of an insurance claims adjuster. I can honestly say almost nothing in life befuddles me as much as the praise of this movie (O.K. maybe Jackson Pollock&#39;s craptacular paintings, but this movie is up there). Every scene in this movie that is supposed to be dramatic and exciting inspires a so-what kind of response. The best way I can describe how I feel about this movie is this: if it wasn&#39;t so critically acclaimed I am absolutely certain I would have completely forgotten about it by now."
"I think it is less than coincidental that Rosebud is an anagram for &quot;bored us&quot;. From the beginning with its 12 minute plus faux newsreel screamed in an annoying voice, till its trite ending this film bored me. Though much of the cinematography was exceptional, the story, the acting, and even the makeup (check out the horrid  goop plastered on his face near the end of the film) were all mediocre. If you are looking for entertaining classic cinema of the 40's, do yourself a favor, look elsewhere!"
"First off please let me explain that I do not get off on the usual American drivel such as Spider Man, Fantastic Four, X Men, or anything else that uses special effects to blanket a poor script and sh.t story with no plot.  I like movies with an edge,that are original with superb acting, great script and direction (that may or may not be art house movies), that have a message to tell:) I have tried to watch this movie twice (I admit I was very young on the fist occasion and then in my 20 s on the second occasion) and on both sittings I could not get past the first 15 mins. Somebody make it stop!!! I contemplated slashing my wrists to see if I was still alive but thought this may be a tad excessive.  I have given this movie a 2 and not a 1 as I am going to give this &quot;masterpiece???&quot; one more chance to see if I can establish one glimmer of hope to see why everyone is verbally masturbating over it."
"The inquiry of a journalist to reconstitute the puzzle of the mysterious life of a baron of American press. The Orson Welles's first film which signed at once, a revolutionary work, years of which alternated neither the boldness nor the dramatic power."
WHY do so many people think Citizen Kane is one of the best of all time? I know that I am not the only person (especially man) who was bored to tears by this movie and never have understood why I was told to use it as an example of how to make a great movie.  Of how to make an old fashioned Soap Opera YES.  If you want to talk and talk and bore people to death then Kane is just the example you want to follow in how to be long winded and dull.  Eschewing action and a good story line for a pedantic plot that is right out of the lecturers handbook then go ahead and sit through Kane and let people know you think Rosebud was brilliant.  I&#x27;ll watch an action movie or cartoons...anything that keeps me awake which this sure as hell won&#x27;t now that I don&#x27;t have to write a report on it
"CITIZEN KANE.  I didn&#x27;t like it, but I appreciated it.  The story is about a guy who runs a newspaper. He dies and his last word was Rosebud. Journalists are now investigating why he chose that as his last word and speaking with everyone who knew him.  I quite like the story of them trying to find the meaning of someones last words. But it was very slow in places. I thought there were moments that were quite boring as nothing really happened. But there were a few scenes and bits in the film that I thought were entertaining.  The acting was alright, but not as good as I was expecting.  But I do appreciate that fact that at the time it was made, it was the first film to use the camera in that fashion. I know some of the shots in that film were never used before and is now taken for granted as we see the kind of angles in all film these days. So for that alone Citizen Kane is a classic.  I will give this film a 5 out of 10.  Not my kind of movie, but it has got some good moments.  For more reviews, please like my Facebook page.  http://www.facebook.com/pages/Ordinary-Person-Movie- Reviews/456572047728204?ref=hl"
Citizen Kane is based around the meaning of a single word &quot;rosebud&quot;.Ther is a debate to this day about the consequence of that word.Charles Foster Kane utters the word rosebud on his deathbed.He is a newspaper tycoon who&#39;s life story is one of rags to riches and back to rags again.He builds a palace by the name Xanadu .He acquires great wealth and power and then loses it . Kane&#39;s carefree childhood is interrupted when a lawyer takes him away from his parents to his new adopted family with a lot of money.From their he begins his journey with a small time newspaper and becomes a rich and powerful man.  After Charles Foster Kane&#39;s death a group of journalists decide to find out the meaning of his last word Rosebud.They are shown to be unsuccessful in their quest.  Rosebud is written at the back of Kane&#39;s childhood sled.This could imply that Rosebud was Kane himself as usually people write their own name behind their childhood possessions.Rosebud has a deeper implication as Kane was taken away from his parents and thus his childhood was nipped in the bud.As once a rosebud is uprooted it can never grow into a rose.One journalist says that you can tell a lot about a person by his last words.Maybe Rosebud was an expression of the fact that Kane felt like despite achieving a lot he still was a rosebud and could not become an individual.
"I saw Citizen Kane at the Arts' Cinema here at Cambridge the other day, and I cannot see why people rave about it. Quite honestly, I don't even think it is a particularly great film, let alone &quot;The Greatest Film of All Time&quot;. There are a few redeeming features of course (as you'd expect from Orson Welles) such as Welles' acting in some (not all) of the scenes, some excellent shots from the ground when Kane has just lost his campaign and his friend is drunk and they're talking for the last time in a long while. These few redeeming features hardly make up for the fact that it is poorly conceived and poorly executed. Most of the acting is fair to middle whilst some of it is downright bad, the plot could have been quite interesting; the downfall of Kane from idealistic youth to power crazy old man. However it is stretched well beyond its limits, each scene being told as many as 3 times. Some might retort that telling the scene 3 times is good (I've heard people mention the fragmented story, but just look at Pulp Fiction which does a considerably better job of this), but really it is nothing special and has been done much better by other films such as &quot;Rashomon&quot; by Akira Kurosawa where the story is retold by each of the participants each time significantly differently. And to top it all, the whole business of &quot;Rosebud&quot; is disappointing. Having an interesting twist at the end of a film is a good thing in general, but in Citizen Kane it is rather a pathetic twist. So the reporter says &quot;I don't think one word could ever explain a man's life&quot; and the word does in fact explain his life. Great. ONE good feature of this film, possibly enough for a short film, but not more. Okay, in a historical context, maybe that was something new and amazing at the time, but now it is old hat. Films like &quot;The Usual Suspects&quot; put it to shame, and if Citizen Kane is supposed to be the &quot;Best Film of All Time&quot;, it can't by definition be taken in a historical context. A Touch of Evil is an infinitely superior film on every account and also by Orson Welles, and in my opinion a far better contender for the title of &quot;Best Film of All Time&quot; than Citizen Kane. If anyone can come up with some genuine reasons why this film is the best of all time, or even very good by modern standards, then please mail me, I'd love to know them, but if it is only good from a historical context, then fine, very interesting, and it's time to move on now."
"It was a good movie. For many years I avoided this movie because all my life it was touted by &quot;elite&quot; movie critics as the best movie ever made. I finally saw it in January 2006. In its original uncut form. It was a pretty darn good movie. However I thought that the screenplay and acting, especially by Orsen Welles, was rather stiff, formulaic, and contrived. I think that the only reason it received high acclaim was the fact that it was very controversial at the time, was not a hit at the box office, and was generally not liked by the general populace. Remember the context of the time in which it was filmed. World war II was in its infancy. People were just not in the mood to see this kind of autocratic genre, particularly the opulence of Xanadu. People just were not in the mood for this type of movie. There was one movie, however, that the people were looking for that was very relevant at the time, family oriented and emotional. To the credit of the Academy, this other movie (go ahead look it up) won the Oscar for best movie in 1941, beating Citizen Kane. It also won other Oscars. If Citizen had been produced in the 60s, I would have rated it higher than 4, but I believe it has been vastly overrated. Gold standard, not hardly."
"I saw this movie for the hype--&quot;best movie ever&quot;! Or so say a bunch of dusty ol' critics. Perhaps this movie was much better in its time, but today it is just boring and slow going. Watch it if you're interested in seeing a piece of history, but don't expect too much *entertainment*."
"I'm 27 years old.  I first saw this film in first year film studies at Carleton University.  It was required viewing for the course.  I hated the film then.  I thought that maybe because I've had five years to grow and mature that I would give this film another chance and watch it for the third time in my lifetime.  Guess what?  My opinion has changed.  I hated it then and now I just dislike it quite a bit.  And the question that I have is why? Why is this film the masterpiece that people say it is?  Is it really because it revolutionized film back in the 40's?  Okay, so it invented the wipe and it had lots of different styles of lighting.  That may make it brilliant on a technical level, but come on people, you cannot tell me that this is not one of the most boring films ever made on the face of this planet or any other planet that has theaters to watch movies in.  How can you get excited about a film that creeps along like a snail moving across a highway in the middle of nowhere?  I really feel like Welles is taking all of you  for suckers.  Because I think he set out to make a boring film just to see if audiences would have an orgasm over it because of its technical brilliance.  I still think he is laughing.  I know I would be.  There was really nothing to like in this film except for one thing.  I can honestly admit that Welles' acting will stand up well today.  He does play Kane with energy and he is believable.  Almost all older films have cardboard actors that speak to fast, have little emotion, overact or are just plain bad actors.  Kanes's second wife in the movie was so laughable that I eventually fast forwarded most of her lines in the film.  She whined and cried and moaned and she was boring.  You ever seen Aliens?  Remember Newt, the little girl that Ripley takes care of, well that is Dorothy Corningmore's character as a little girl.  What a joke.  Citizen Kane has pulled the wool over everyone's eyes for six decades!!! Critics, well I can understand them liking this piece of garbage, they have to or they look like they are incompetent fools.  That is their job.  But the general public?  Are you people on a really bad acid trip?  I welcome any emails that would please try to explain to me the greatness in this film.  Please, contact me.  I really am dying to know.  Why is this a tragic film?  Why is this an American masterpiece?  I am begging for some insight, because I haven't heard anything or read anything that says how great it is. All I have read is a bunch of people conforming to popular opinion that this is THE MOVIE to see.  I can name about 500 films that I have seen in my life time that are better than this and some of them I probably don't even like that much.  I would even go so far as to say that a really good Friday the 13th film is better than this joke of a film.  Well, I guess diplomacy is not one of my strong points, but I really don't understand the beauty, importance, tragedy, wonder or any other compliment that has been bestowed on Citizen Kane.  It just doesn't do it for me. You want to watch a great film that has everything that this film apparently has?  Watch Jaws, JFK, Apocalypse Now, Aliens, Mississippi Burning.  That is just a handfull of films that are what I consider to be the best films ever made.  I don't think that this is on my list of worst films ever made anymore ( it used to be ), but it easily tops my list of most overhyped, ridiculous boring films to ever disgrace our screens."
"Here goes! Citizen Kane regularly tops the list of American critics' best films of all time lists and runs in the top ten in European critic ratings, despite having been a huge commercial failure at the time of its original release. It is a serious, well-acted and groundbreaking film certainly, but to describe it as the best film ever made is ludicrous; in fact I would rate it the most overrated movie in the history of film. Because I don't like Welles? Not at all. Welles had one of the most original and creative careers in world cinema and Othello (1952) would probably rank in my own top ten list. So why my scepticism? One of the biggest problems I have with the film is that, like Apocalypse Now, it requires a certain political position in order to fully appreciate it. Pauline Kael, the doyenne of American film critics, is on record as saying that the film was an important cultural statement for left-wing Americans at the time, and that is certainly true. But a film which has that kind of appeal usually makes assumptions that are far from universally shared, and often ungenerous ones at that. Hearst was a bete-noir of the American left whose newspapers had decades earlier encouraged a jingoistic war in Cuba. Did that give Welles the right though to dissect his life without even knowing the man (he later met him once in a lift) and, in particular to characterise him as cold an ungiving at a personal level? (It is worth remembering, in this context, that when Hearst later fell on hard times his wife apparently so starved of love sold her jewels and remained with him). The film has too much the feel of a hatchet job. Someone could make a similar movie today about Rupert Murdoch and it might be well-acted and beautifully shot but you see the problem! Welles was only twenty-five when he made this movie and it shows. Certainly he had a right to an opinion and a right to state it, but life is a little more complex than you would know from this movie.  Defenders of the movie often point to the originality and quality of its cinematography and the influence it has had on American cinema in particular. This is undoubtedly true. In the same way that Eliot, Joyce and Nabakov changed literature, Welles helped to change cinema. But Picasso was unquestionably the most influential figure on twentieth century art and yet his influence would not necessarily be universally accepted as benign.  I am not suggesting that the influence of Citizen Kane was malign, but influence and quality are discrete concepts. As for the cinematography itself is it really as original as many American critics seem to think? What about early Eisenstein or, at the risk of being non-pc, the extraordinary cinematography several years earlier of Leni Riefenstahl's Triumph Of The Will? A serious film? Yes! An important film? Unquestionably! The greatest film ever made? Move over! It is simply too cold ever to be that."
"Far and away the most overrated film of all time. Lousy acting, unsympathetic characters, thin plot (power corrupts and money doesn't necessarily bring happiness) which is spoon-fed laboriously to the hapless viewer in an over-long and unevenly paced stream. Mildly interesting for the visual and directorial techniques that were new at the time (but so what?). Just about worth watching on a rainy afternoon if you have nothing better to do and want to find out what all the fuss is about."
"I was forced to watch this movie when I took Literature and History of Film in high school. Our class was generally excited, thinking this is one of the classic movies of all time, &#x22;this should be good&#x22; I thought. I actually can&#x27;t believe that this movie sucks this much. The storyline is boring, everything about this movie makes me want to hurt myself. I do not comprehend this movie being anywhere near the top 100 movies of all time, of all the movies our class watched, this was hands down the worst. Nothing we watched ever came close, this movie makes you want to die. If you want to make someone fall asleep almost instantly, put this movie on and it&#x27;s a guaranteed rem cycle. I wouldn&#x27;t watch this movie again if I got paid. I had offered 50 dollars to any of my family members who wanted to see if they could watch the movie in length without sleeping, none of the 3 have succeeded. If anyone you know says &#x22;Hey Jack, come over and let us watch Citizen Kane&#x22; you should break any ties to that person immediately and reconsider who you let into your life. For entertainment value, this movie scores a flat zero. I would rather chew both of my arms off to the shoulder blade than watch this movie again."
"but why ? apparently, this movie is a real treat for the connoisseur, and the viewers who have no knowledge about cinema and movie making are not able to appreciate the quality of this work. but to save yourself the disgrace of being seen as a layperson you can study it and try to like it. than hopefully you will understand what exactly is so great about this work and why it has such an important significance in the history of film making. I have seen this movie and I strongly recommend to reed supporting literature in advance. as for me, I find this movie overrated and I agree fully with Ingmar Bergman&#39;s opinion (see Wikiquote). rating : 2 of of 10"
"The plot of Kane was evident, but it was slightly monotonous (in my opinion). The prospect of a reporter attempting to find the origins of a mysterious name sounds dull, and seemed to play even duller on the screen. This is one of the movies that can be watched only with a sharp mind -- anything lesser and boredom, then sleep, seems to set in."
"Infantile, sentimenal, repetitive fable of lost innocence; tricked out with perspectives (see Hitchcock, Eisenstein), and depth of field (see Wuthering Heights, 1938, AA gregg Toland). Regarded as influential by superficial critics, but largely disregarded on release.  Had it not been for the notoriety surrounding the source of the story, Citizen Kane would have sunk into well deserved obscurity as an impressive debut for an ultimately minor talent. It's continual appearance in list of &quot;Greatest Movies Ever&quot; would appear to be a matter of conditioning, and inertia, as I have yet to meet anyone who has enjoyed watching it, and have yet to hear of a film maker who was influenced by it."
"I have tried to watch this film 4 times, and can't make it thru.  It's just plain BORING!  Why do people rave about it?  I'm over 50, so it's not that I'm an action junkie, it is just a BORING film.  I don't understand why it is always rated so high on the &quot;Best of&quot; lists."
"Citizen Kane is the most overrated movie in cinema history, with the possible exception of Battleship Potempkin.  CK is a movie about a millionaire, and Americans are fascinated by money, so it's really no surprise that they'd be fascinated by this film.  However, make the lead character an encyclopedia salesman, without a fancy house or a newspaper and I think the fascination would quickly dissapear, as people start to see him and the film for what both really are: an utter bore.  Kane is insipidly shallow, as the identity of &quot;Rosebud&quot; plainly shows.  But, far from being an effective satire of expose of upper class society, the film is puddle deep.  It also fails to get the audience interested in the paper-thin characters, or snoozer of a plot.  You might be surprised that a film so mediocre would be rated so highly, until you took a look at what passes for Oscar material, or what gets voted to the top here.  People have no taste or clue.  So it's really no surprise at all."
"Completely. Who thought it would be a good idea to make a movie about a newspaper editor? How boring of an idea is that? If this weren&#39;t a &quot;Great Movie&quot; I would have already forgotten about it by now. Some of the techniques used to make the film may have been revolutionary but that is irrelevant in terms of how good the film actually is. That is significant but should go down in some cinematography textbook, just because someone discovered some revolutionary method of film-making doesn&#39;t mean it makes his/her story interesting, quite the contrary. If you want to see a classic see Mrs. Miniver, The Best Years of Our Lives, or His Girl Friday. Anything but this snoozer."
"There's no doubting the technical brilliance of Citizen Kane. The set-design, cinematography and special effects hold up to this day. But it is, much like CF Kane, vacuous.  I remember seeing Citizen Kane for the first-time several years ago. At this point my love of movies was nurturing and had heard about the superlatives pointing in Citizen Kane's direction. I saw about 1 hour and turned it off.  Last year, I became inquisitive again about Citizen Kane and resolutely watched it all the way through. I just about managed it.  Movies are about entertainment. No amount of technical ingenuity can gloss over a weak script, dull supporting characters and, most of all, a lead character so bereft of appeal. Read positive reviews about Citizen Kane and you'll probably see whole paragraphs taken up with how technically superior it is.  But this isn't what movies are about is it? Should non-critics really appreciate the techniques employed in this film and casually ignore what lack of entertainment they have witnessed?  Citizen Kane is to film-makers what a video of a Batista operation is for heart surgeons - very informative, but are really not easy viewing for those outside the profession."
"OK here it goes..... I&#39;ve been using this great site for many years reviewing, searching, and occasionally reading reviews. Never have I left a comment on movies before, but after watching this movie it seems I had no choice. I got this movie as a gift, being I&#39;m sort of a &quot;movie buff&quot; the person got it for me cause it was said to be one of the greatest movies ever. My first attempt, I fell asleep, perhaps due to a long and hectic day. My second attempt, I was in the mood for a great classic/drama and gave it another chance. Now I&#39;m not going to go into all the fancy terms critics use to evaluate movies, or scripts, screens, acting....but this movie, is by far, the most boring movie I have ever seen in my life. Its just that simple. Boring. In 1941....perhaps a classic, but today....BORING."
"I normally enjoy older movies, especially those from the 1940s, but after finishing Citizen Kane, I couldn&#x27;t remotely understand why it is praised so much. It has to be without a doubt the most overrated movie I have ever seen. It seemed to me that it was well-filmed, maybe even exceptionally filmed for its time, but the story itself is just a drag. There&#x27;s none of the drama, suspense, wit, mystery, or humor in Citizen Kane that made so many superior movies the classics that they are. It&#x27;s just incredibly lacking in so many ways. The payoff is skillfully done, but it doesn&#x27;t excuse the rest of the movie because there was never any reason to care about the protagonist. Kane is supposed to be some kind of tragic character but he&#x27;s unsympathetic, he&#x27;s neurotic, he&#x27;s depressing,and worst of all he&#x27;s dead. It&#x27;s baffling that this is considered a great movie."
"I agree mostly on what you are saying, the story in Citizen Kane was very weak, but the Cinematography was about 30 years ahead of its time. That is an amazing jump for anything. Orson Welles directed this movie wonderfully, but lacked in the writing area. Even though Citizen Kane was based on an actual person who's name escapes me, it still could have been much more interesting. Even being one of the most revolutionary movies in Cinematography ever made, I don't see what the big hype over it is. It had the most boring storyline I've ever seen. Even though i dislike this movie, I still believe it is an important movie for any movie buff to see, as far as the technical aspects of it goes."
I really like Orson Welles but I didn't particularly care for this highly regarded movie. I kept losing interest. The acting is wonderful but the story didn't draw me into the characters. I don't consider this a great movie.
"OK, this was an important film for its time -- no one can dispute that. It revolutionised the use of the camera and the use of space in the mise-en-scene. But the thing is that the story is just unbearably dull! The characters are too hammy and look like they are acting and fail to get the sympathy of the audience at any time. Kane is a jerk who has about as much self-understanding as a two year old kid. How can most people relate to him? If you are really into the history of film or cinematography, this movie is of immeasurable importance and it should be studied. But if you just want to see a good movie with characters that you can relate to and a plot that is interesting, go elsewhere . . . this film is all art and no soul."
Whilst this is considered the greatest film ever people clearly need to watch more recent films. This film is so boring and it was a real chore to sit through. Anyone who says they think it is amazing is lying. Story is second rate at best. Nothing else is special about it at all.  I am upset that I wasted 2 hours of my life watching this film. I don&#x27;t feel you need to watch this film. There are better classics.  Modern films or most recent classics make this look bad.  I would urge you not to waste your time by watching this film.  It&#x27;s painful to watch but not in a powerful way.  1/10  Only because I can&#x27;t give it anything lower.
"Citizen Kane laid, in 1941, the visual foundations of movies as we know them today, with groundbreaking shots, travellings and other matte paintings, as well as the flashback based non linear storytelling structure which has been used over and over since then, and this technical and innovative aspect is probably why this movie is considered by a lot of critics and institutions &#x22;the best of all time&#x22;.  Because if you think about the content, this is far from a masterpiece. The script is a long, disjointed and ultimately little interesting retrospective of Charles Kane life, where even the &#x22;Rosebud&#x22; plot turns out to be a letdown.  If a remake, similar in every way, of Citizen Kane was made today, it would be considered average at best, which shows well that the historical context and the movie being some sort of pioneer influences the judgements a lot, at least more than the inherent quality of the film and its script in particular."
Maybe it's because I've seen the film a million times repeated in a later generation of films or maybe it just isn't everything it's cracked up to be. Four times I've failed to watch the film to completion and it just hasn't grabbed me... Not the lingering classic everyone assumes - I dont get it - believe me I am a huge fan of classics but I simply dont get it with this one...???
"Why would you watch this movie...well simply to understand those &quot;rosebud&quot; references found in comedies. This movie had NO point! If you would like to watch a documentary about a fictional character go right ahead, but I for one think that a plot thicker than finding out why his last word was &quot;rosebud&quot; would have made a better movie. I've seen better plots in a pornography."
"I'm in the minority, I know, but I found this movie to be utterly boring and hard to follow. Maybe it's my predisposition against old movies in general, but I wanted so bad to like this (after all, so many have given it high marks for cinematic excellence).  Sorry, Mr. Wells. But I couldn't follow your vision."
"I know that this is regularly voted as the best movie ever made, and is even in the top 20 or so on this very site, but i saw nothing in this film to convince me that this was the case.  The plot seemed laboured, and even if it was based on a true story, it could surely have been livelier or at the very least a bit shorter. By the time the film finished i could not wait to forget all about it, and watch a proper movie.  Maybe it&#39;s the films reputation that makes it appear so bland and boring. Anything with so much hype is always going to be a let-down, but i honestly just think that it&#39;s so popular simply because of the reputation that its Director/Star has built up over the years.  Take my advice: Avoid this film unless you need a quick-working cure for insomnia."
"Even though I have studied this film numerous times and fully appreciate its artistry &#150; for which it deserves praise &#150; the basic pace of this film and its script leave me wondering if so many &#39;critics&#39; place it as the best simply because it is the &#39;enlightened/snobbish&#39; thing to do.  Although it has a deep, sad story within it; the film, to be blunt, is boring. Each shot truly is a wonder of technical staging, special effect, and cinematography, but the film itself lacks life.  The scenes are presented one at a time as different pieces in the puzzle of who Kane really was, but there are too many pieces and so little connectivity between them that they become a confusing blur from which little understanding is gleaned. The individual scenes themselves actually can be distracting from the overall film in that their rich qualities, lavish sets, and dramatic lighting often overshadow and overpower whatever information they contain. Even though the audience is supposed to be going through the same dilemma as the investigator, there are far too many lengthy subplots and red herrings. By the time the final scene is presented, the significance of what is seen is easily lost on an audience that has to think back across the entire movie to determine how it all fits together. So many with whom I have seen this film were asleep before that last scene.  The film was so well hyped at its release - and has such a great story of Hearst trying to destroy it, that it is a kind of legend in film history. I simply fail to see how it is the &#39;greatest&#39; film ever made. Technologically beautiful, yes. An overall great film, no."
"Ok I don't really feel any of the movies that are in the IMDB top 10 should be there but that's just me. I watched Citizen Kane today and I thought it was just decent. The movie starts out with just showing mr. Kane's lips as he says rosebud and dies. During the movie they are telling of his life while trying to figure out what rosebud means. I think it's an interesting story and I was hoping to find out but I never did, oh well it's a good movie but in the top 10? hmm I dunno I'm 19 so maybe I'm just too young and dumb to understand I dunno."
"OK, technically beautiful, great to look at. A real technological trailblazer.  But why hasn't anyone noticed the acting and dialog? Though I found most of the actors to be completely bereft of talent I am not sure a good actor could make the stiffly written script sound good. Sometimes it seems like they are reading cliff notes about their current events rather than having a conversation. Perhaps that's a writing device movie makers used, I don't like it if so.  I bought this movie before I saw it, so I had the chance to give it 3 watches. Actually it's 5 watches if you count the times I didn't make it through the first 40 minutes before passing out. I really do regard myself as a semi-sophisticated semi-learned movie buff but for some reason I can't wrap my brain 'round this one. I'll watch it again in 6 months and come back and tell you if I still don't like it."
"I have no idea what people find in this movie. I do not know how influential it was from a cinema history standpoint, if it was I can accept that. But then, the train arrival &quot;movie&quot; was even more influential and about as interesting. Really, the movie is extremely boring, I really couldn't care about the &quot;secret of Rosebud&quot; and the &quot;revelation&quot; at the end wasn't anything exciting either."
"Another dull film, built around a second rate artist.   I wonder whether Kenneth Branagh built his Harry Potter, 'Gilderoy Lockheart' performance around Orson Welles in this movie. Arrogant, incompetent, hammy, self-fancying ... yes that's Welles. Lighting which would be embarassing in an 11-year olds' school play, dialogue which George Lucas would have found cheesy and a badly mixed musical soundtrack.  If you care what happens after 30 minutes, you must be involved in the illegal drugs business, because no one else does.  A dreary film from a pompous &quot;actor&quot;."
"I saw Citizen Kane (CK)  some years ago, but the sense of deep dissappointment still lingers on.  Some points.  1. The storyline in CK: Inching ahead, tiresome, drawn-out, and at some points directly boring. Other movies from this era (and other eras) are far better. When &quot;Rosebud&quot; is mentioned the umpteenth time, I lost all interest - simply too thin a plot for my likings. This doesn't have something to do with the age of the movie or that is it black/white, simply my opinion about the story.  2. CK as a portrait of the archetypical &quot;Great man, who ultimately fails&quot;.  This is done a lot better elsewhere. Need I mention Michael Corleone in the Godfather series. Doughboy in &quot;Boys in the Hood&quot; also makes for a far better and more believable &quot;Great man, who fails at the personal/relational level&quot; as well. Of course, I realize that CK came before these movies, but that doesn't quite make up for all of it. I simply don't find CK believable or interesting as a character.  Some of my disappointment possibly stems from all the &quot;hype&quot; CK has received thru the times, but not all of it. Usually I tend to like what serious critics acclaim as &quot;great movies&quot;, but this time I found myself completely at odds with the moviewatcher &quot;establishment&quot;.  3/10"
"Citizen Kane is a film made in the 1960s often voted as the greatest film ever. Sadly, this is not the case and i&#39;ll tell you why. Citizen Kane stars Anthony Hopkins as the newspaper mogul who goes on a steady downwards spiral as the film progresses. However Marlon Brando, whom i find to be a great actor, does a poor job in directing this supposed &#39;epic&#39;. First of all opting to direct it in black and white as well as devoiding the film of laughs. There is no comedy here and i like to at least laugh when i&#39;m watching a film, who does&#39;nt? I guess, long story short, i really advise against seeing this film unless your looking to be bored for an hour and a half (though it feels more like 8 hours! lol)."
"Let me start of by saying that I understand that this movie was important when it was released, and that it had great influence, and I respect it for that. I found it extremely dull though, I can't believe people claim this is the best movie ever made. It sure isn't. I would probably have fallen asleep if it had not been for the hope that it would come up with something of interest before ending. I might as well have fallen asleep though, cause not much happened. I watch a lot of movies, and I don't mind artsy or unsual ones, like El Topo, Breaking The Waves, Santa Sangre, Satyricon etc. Citizen Kane completly failed to interest me though, and even though it's far from the worst movie I have ever seen, I would not even dream of calling it the best."
"OK - I know it is considered a classic.  It brought about a technical revolution in movie technique.  It changed forever the way movies were made and viewed, etc.,etc. etc.  However it is a monumental task in 1999 to sit through this long boring movie.  A true classic never becomes a boring movie."
"90% of the positive reviews written on this movie say the same three things: Citizen Kane is an amazing movie because (1) The cinematography was pure genius (2) It was way ahead of its time and (3) Orson Welles was only 25 when he created it.  I get tired of people saying that a certain movie was &quot;ahead of its time.&quot; Usually that means the movie isn't as good anymore. Truly great movies don't lose their luster over time. I would argue that &quot;It's a Wonderful Life&quot; is every bit as good today as it was 60 years ago. Citizen Kane, on the other hand, has certainly lost something. Even people who love the movie usually concede that point.  Citizen Kane was certainly revolutionary and was an extremely important film in the sense that it inspired so many future directors and cinematographers. But when it comes right down to it, it's just not that interesting to watch. You shouldn't love a movie because of what it used to be. A truly great movie is timeless. And great cinematography does not make a great movie (see &quot;The Thin Red Line&quot;, the 90s version)."
"No, I don't mean a WWF grudge match.  This has been called the greatest film ever made.  I found it to be decent, but somewhat boring.  Some of the fancy-pants types out there may relate to it, but not the common man.  When a movie accomplishes the tasks of being great art and connecting with the average folk, then it shall be the greatest.  In my mind, that is the Godfather.  The Godfather is about a family. One with problems that all families face.  It just happens that the family has their own family business. Citizen Kane is about a wealthy bachelor.  How many wealthy bachelors do you know?  This film has good acting, and a decent plot.  But, it may bore those who it doesn't connect with on a personal level.  My rating: 4 out of ten."
"I like Orson Welles as a person. He was warm, witty, intelligent, a great conversationalist. So, why do I have such an intense dislike for his entire body of work? I find his films nauseatingly morbid and draining. These very, very dark films make the darkest film noir look like a light comedy. My least favorite of his films is &quot;Citizen Kane&quot;, a veritable compendium of everything that should be avoided in films: time spans that are too long, villainous heroes, insufferable pretentiousness and gross overreaching. This film unintentionally glorifies Hearst. He did not merit such a hatchet job. It honors him by implying there is complexity in the man. One gets the feeling that Welles secretly admired Hearst, and that behind the critique is a bit of envy."
"Why can't IMDB just take the actual average of all of the thousands of people who have rated these movies and come up with a real list. Citizen Kane wouldn't really be #11. Why does the &quot;weighted average&quot; give bonus points to a film like this while it handicaps other films that people rated higher. People would get a lot more out of an accurate list that doesn't use a bogus mystery formula to keep stuffing the same old boring films down our throats. Lose the weighted averages, IMDB. Citizen Kane would still rate high enough to appear somewhere on the list. But lets face it. It is a very boring film that wouldn't really stand the test of time on its own merits. Too many dinosaurs fighting to keep this one alive and at or near the top of these kinds of all-time lists."
"While this movie has received many glowing reviews and critical acclaim I cannot fathom why people would consider it a great movie.  It's not even worth watching.  Aside from being slow moving and of relatively little interest it lacks plausibility on some key points.  For example why would someone, upon coming into money, send their child off to live with a banker?"
"When I was growing up, I heard about various films that were considered &quot;Classics&quot;. Citizen Kane was one of them. Eventually, I got round to watching it, and Orson Welles follow up, the Magnificent Ambersons on TV. Both of them I found tedious, and the products of an over inflated ego. Whereas his radio broadcast of The War Of The Worlds was an excellent piece of radio history, I do not believe that his &quot;genius&quot; was much in evidence behind the camera, rather, he should have stuck with the medium of sound, or to working for other directors, such as Carol Reed on The Third Man. As is the case with so many &quot;classic&quot; movies, Citizen Kane suffers from great expectations being thrust upon a mediocre picture, with the resultant effect that the film seems even worse than it actually is."
"At long last, I finally saw this film.  It's dull.  We had to take a break in the middle because it was putting us to sleep, and when we returned to it later in the day, I was in danger of slipping into a coma.  Yes, there is a lot of skill exhibited in terms of directing, but the story itself is not engaging at all.  I'm still reeling from the shock at how lifeless and boring it is, what with the stellar reputation this film enjoys."
"Orson Welles was too concerned with his technical advances and &quot;artistic&quot; camera angles to put much thought into the story line. He threw in the stupid &quot;rosebud&quot; which was supposed to be clever enough to make up for the lack a compelling plot. The only people who still champion this film are college film teachers, and the idiots that listen to them. If you show this film to anyone who has never heard of it, they&#39;d be very likely to say it&#39;s the worst they&#39;ve ever seen. You shouldn&#39;t have to preface and defend the &quot;greatest movie ever&quot;. It should be able to speak for itself, and it clearly does, which is why everyone hates it."
"What's all the furor over this film? It was sometimes interesting,sometimes dull... in the end, it was just another movie. So an arrogant, overweight newspaper publisher talks out both sides of his mouth about his fellow man, while blowing money and wasting time with some shrill soprano slut. So what?  Old film buffs may like this one, but to me it's just flat dated."
"This film is so horribly boring and uninteresting.  I sat through the worst over the top acting just so i could say i watched citizen kane.  Frankly, i don't know what the big damn deal is about this film.  it took orsen wells 2 hrs to say he wanted his childhood back?  wow, that makes for a damn compelling character and story."
My wife and I could not understand what the fuss was over this film.  We were lost as we tried to follow the fragmented plot and gave up after an hour.  The end would have to be great to make up for the very slow start.
"Whenever I read about what a great movie 'Citizen Kane' is I am reminded of the story of the king who wore invisible clothes.   The king had this suit of clothes made which the tailor said &quot;could only be seen by honest people&quot; , in fact there were no clothes but the tailor relied on no one admitting that they could not see them. So as the king paraded by everyone commented on how lovely the king's new clothes were though they could see nothing. Finally, a child pointed to the king and said ...&quot;But he has no clothes, he's naked!&quot; ... and everyone understood that they were not dishonest people but that the king was a dunce.  That's exactly how I feel about this movie. EVERYONE says this movie is the greatest thing since sliced bread and I think half of them simply don't want other's to think they are artistically  challenged, a remaining fourth have been convinced that they do like it even though down at the bone they don't, and the rest really see something good in the film.  I have tried repeatedly to find merit with this movie because everyone else says it's so good (so they must be right and I must be wrong) I have studied the reviews and looked for all the devices within the movie that supposedly make it so great ... but I have come to one conclusion .... the king is really naked."
"I fell asleep during this stinker that went nowhere, the storyline was uninteresting and boring, and the characters was boring, it was just boring. So this ruch guy mumbles *Rosebud* at the time of his death, and then everyone wants to figure out what it is. Erm, this is supposed to be interesting? I can list 100s of films that put this one 6 foot under...."
"All my life I've heard how great this film is.  All my life I've heard that this is *the* masterpiece of cinema.  Finally I get a chance to watch it. I hated every second of it.  I found *NO* redeeming qualities to it whatsoever.  From the opening &quot;let's do painfully clumsy exposition in a really bad, really loud, really obnoxious faux newsreel&quot; to the painfully obvious identity of Rosebud this film was a dog.  The only thing that kept me from falling asleep while watching it was the annoyingly loud, nasal voice of (I think) Joseph Cotten.  (It may have been Everett Sloane.  I lost track through sheer ennui....)  It's possible that I'm just &quot;not connected&quot; to the era or style of Citizen Kane, but I pretty much have to rule that out.  I like many movies contemporary to Citizen Kane.  (Casablanca and Key Largo leap to mind immediately.)  I've also enjoyed several movies made by and/or starring Orson Welles.  (Touch of Evil leaps to mind in a big way here.)  I just found this movie annoying and irritating.  This was probably the second-largest movie letdown of my entire life."
"&quot;Citizen Kane&quot; is very disappointing. Of course, the technic is great, and inspired many and many great filmmakers... but it is so heavy and pretentious sometimes, as if the director of photography was telling you&quot; hey, see how great my style is!&quot; I should also add that camera angles and original lightning don't make a story, and in the case of &quot;the best film ever made&quot;, it is plain boring... In a way &quot;Citizen Kane&quot; is like &quot;the phantom menace&quot;. You can tell whatever you want to their fans, they will always say that they're great because thinking different would be like betraying great legends..."
"I always see this movie in those lists, you know the ones &quot;Top 10 movies ever&quot;. For the life of me I can not understand why so many people think this movie is fantastic.  My friend was studying this movie for her Bachelors degree and I agreed to sit down and watch it with her so that she had another opinion. It is now the standard by which my friends and I rate movies. Instead of 1 to 10 it is now &quot;Citizen Kane&quot; to &quot;Lord of the Rings&quot;.  I suspect that some people who claim to like this movie do so because they want to appear intelligent for understanding the importance of Rosebud."
"This film is about a man who has a vision to open a chain of florists called &#39;Rosebud&#39; across America. However, his efforts are thwarted by another company, Interflora.  Kane(Welles) decides to fight against the multi conglomerate and becomes a one man army. He isolates himself in his apartment and begins training himself for the inevitable bloodbath to follow.  Meanwhile a young prostitute catches his eye and he promises to deliver her from her life under a seedy pimp. His descent into madness continues when he decides to eliminate a political candidate.  The film wallows in the seedy side of the floral business and eventually erupts into a violent climax in a brothel.  Kane is shot in the neck and collapses to the floor. A man without hope. A man robbed of his floral delivery service. A victim of a national conglomerate prepared to do anything to stop him. The common man once again contained.  Lying in a pool of blood, Kane has a vision. A solitary rosebud, which haunts him in his final moments of consciousness.  &quot; Rosebud...rosebud...we nearly made it...Damn you, Interflora...Rosebud... Rosebud.&quot; An average movie, drowning in it&#39;s own weighty legacy."
I hate this film. I really do. Its currently number #21 in the top #250. I remember when it use to be like #3 or #4.  Its obvious that people born after the war have started watching it. I think we can thus all agree that the show is completely crap. I call it a show because it doesn&#39;t remind me of a film really. More of a show.  The plot is based on a single word. Rosebud. Once you learn the meaning of &quot;Rosebud&quot; you spoil the film for yourself because the plot of the film is working out what a rosebud is. Its obviously not the bud of a rose; but it might be. Thats the question this thought provoking film raises to the intelligent viewer.  Thats the intended magic of the film; is it or isn&#39;t it an actual rosebud. Or is it something else; say an important prop to the main character. Doesn&#39;t that sound like a fantastic idea for a film? NOT More like a bad idea for an episode of on a unpopular TV show. The academy had it right ignoring this film. Critics letting time be a positive judge on this film is a 65 year old mistake I am correcting in this review.  If you have not seen this film consider yourself lucky. Don&#39;t watch it. Unless you want to see over-hyped and overpraised personified. Because thats what this junk is. Its crap really. To like it is to jump on a bandwagon and be stupid. I don&#39;t know who the first guy to praise it was but people been jumping on that band wagon ever since and it makes me sick. This film is awful junk.
"There are so many people out there who love Citizen Kane and who have written some great reviews about it, having studied the film in much more detail. If you're one of those types of people or you're looking for that type of review, then I would consider you stop reading now. This mini-review is just written from the perspective of someone who enjoys watching films.  Sadly, the average cinema viewer is not going to enjoy or appreciate this film. By today's standards, it is over-rated. This goes for my standards too. Yes, the film has been produced very well, and the photography is excellent. It is even a sad film; the ending is particularly sad, even when we do learn the source of Kane's dying word...with the knowledge that no one will probably ever know. Rightfully so, this film was considered a great film. It's still a good film, albeit over-rated in my eyes.  I would watch this film again, but I would not recommend this film to the average audience. I think they would find it slow-moving and unimportant by today's standards...especially when the film has been hyped up as much as it is."
"This WAS a great movie, and every film student should see it.  But the audience today is more sophisticated and new technology nullifies the work that was put into it.  For instance, getting depth of field by matting in the telephone in the foreground.. so what?  This is like saying the IBM AT is a great computer (it had it's day, but by today's standards it's just not that good anymore - nobody continues to rave over it).  The camera work that once created the dramatic tention is now blatant and sort of breaks the &quot;third wall&quot;, becoming more distracting than dramatic.  As for story, it could have been packed into 30 minutes and had the same punch.  There's not much in terms of plot points going on here (shall we say 2: one in the first minute and one in the last? ..or do you want to consider finding &quot;Joseph Cotton's character has aged over the years&quot; as a plot point??).  Sub plots?  ..you'll fall asleep waiting for one.  The theme of &quot;a man working his way up to filthy rich/what he pays for it and what he holds meaningful in life&quot; is worth about 30 minutes ..tops. The ride there is visually stunning, if you haven't seen a movie since 1941.  A film student really needs to study this film because of the techniques and attention to &quot;film making&quot; - the ability to get exactly what you want: the &quot;production value&quot; (just like an engineerig student should know and understand basic addition and subtraction).  But to the average audience today there is ABSOLUTELY NO ENTERTAINMENT VALUE in this &quot;classic&quot;."
"Citizen Kane has always been regarded as a great movie and even makes the IMDB's top 250 list. But friends, from the viewpoint of this twentysomething, Citizen Kane is a long, drawn-out, torturous film. Perhaps it's because I'm from a generation where 100 million USD budgets are commonplace for any &quot;epic,&quot; but CK lacks what makes a good movie for me. The &quot;new&quot; editing and filming techniques Orson Welles used were fairly uninteresting, his story was mildly entertaining at best, and all the focus on &quot;Rosebud&quot; was simply ridiculous. The scene where Kane says Rosebud moves fast and is edited jaggedly, yet the whole film revolves on it for people. I find that curious.  So beware of all the hoopla for Citizen Kane, I find it misplaced. It is a relic of the motion picture industry and should be stocked away accordingly."
"I don't care how great is &quot;WAS&quot; I care how great it is &quot;NOW&quot;  Thats the story of Citizen Kane. It was great, groundbreaking, new, and fantastic back in the day.....but now.....films surpass it in everyway. I'd rather watch Xenia Warrior Princess than this again."
This movie has quite the history but that doesn't make it good. The story is slow and nothing really important happens. Not very well directed either. Not a movie worth watching. Why people like this movie so much that it was considered the best movie ever made still confuses me. I do like what Rosebud really means in both this movie and in real life. It is the one funny part to this dull movie. This movie was also too long. I always thought that movies at this time stayed at around an hour and a half but this one was over two hours long even though there was no story. All around it was a very bad movie. Don't spend the time or the money to see it.
"Why is it that this movie is always near the top of every list of good movies. I have seen this movie, and I thought it was boring. I was VERY disapointed. When I rented it I thought for sure It had to be good. Going by all the top ten lists I have seen it on. I guess the people that make these lists can not think for themselves. If big shots in Hollywood thought it was a great movie (back then). It must be true. Right?....WRONG!! Must have had something to do with the contraversy, back when it first came out. Well I am not a phoney movie critic, so here is my honest opinion....Don`t waste two hours of your life watching this movie. Movies are made to entertain people. This one however, failed to do so. Can we stop rewarding it for something that it has not done."
This is a typical art picture that the pathetic movie art crowd raves about - A boring movie that takes itself way too seriously - Movies are supposed to be entertainment but this is anything but entertaining. Don't bother watching this tripe - The film was a disaster at the box office because it was so bad - But the snobby artistic snobs who write film reviews are always negative to films which are actually entertaining and popular only giving praise to esoteric nonsense like this garbage and then naming them the masterpieces of cinematic history. All I have to say is: NUTS!  What a waste of film.
"I thought this was VERY VERY BORING.  The only reason why I didn't turn it off was because I wanted to find out what he meant by saying &quot;Rosebud&quot;.  I agree with the ratings of most other movies in the top 100, but not this one. This does not even compare to great movies like The Godfather, Schindler's List, Memento, Psycho, It's a Wonderful Life, etc."
"Citizen Kane has shown how publicity and the media can affect the rating of a movie.  Yes the technical aspects were revolutionary at the time, but does that make the movie the best?  The answer is no, because this movie; if you drop all the techniques it is just a flat and boring movie.  The whole reason why you would ever watch it in the first place, is not for the movie its for the techniques in it.   My opinion is to ignore comments about how good Citizen Kane is and go watch  some other movie that actually has a point!!   Rating: 1/10"
"I don't know why everyone loves this movie. I don't see what's so &quot;revolutionary&quot; about this movie. Its boring. Every character is stale and uninteresting. I don't care about anyone, especially the protagonist, Kane, who is just a rich arrogant jerk the whole movie. If you ask me, the movie should've ended after Kane died in the beginning.  It sucks. What else can I say? Its a long movie, but it feels longer since its really boring and has nothing going on except people sitting around talking about useless nonsense. If the characters are not talking about how great Kane is, they're talking about how horrible he is or just some boring uninteresting topic that has nothing to do with the movie. And for those people who say you have to see this movie in a theatre for the full experience, I saw Citizen Kane in a theatre. And it sucked."
"Single Worst Movie of All Time!!! This just shows how people are just complete sheep. Your told this is supposedly the best movie of all time, but if you actually thought for yourself you would realize otherwise. Not that you have to agree with me, but certainly this is no where near the best movie of all time."
"Very over rated film!  A newspaper tycoon (modeled after Hearst) dies, utters the word &quot;rosebud&quot; and his life is traced in flashbacks.  If that's your idea of excitement and great movie making, go for it.   It makes me yawn!"
"We all know the story about the emperor riding butt naked down the street and all his loyal subjects chorusing &quot;what a wonderful, splendid suit of clothes&quot; - until some kid chimes in with the observation &quot;but he's as naked as a jaybird&quot;!! Well, for me &quot;Citizen Kane&quot; - along with that other overblown, overrated yawn-fest &quot;Gone With The Wind&quot; which was made a couple of years earlier - is one of those &quot;emperor's new clothes&quot; movies that has fed on its own myth and which most people seem terrified of slagging off for fear of being branded a philistine. Sure, it may have been a &quot;pioneering&quot; and &quot;revolutionary&quot; kind of movie in its day. But does that alone qualify it for the tag of &quot;The Greatest&quot;? I think not. The Wright Brothers invented the aeroplane. They were pioneers. They revolutionized transport. But a lot of others came along afterwards and did it much better.  And so it is with movie-making. Citizen Kane and GWTW should be accepted for what they are - groundbreaking in their day, but twee and dated by modern standards."
"I went into this film hoping and expecting to find a moving, character led masterpiece.  Unfortunately what I found was a tired, dated film with very little character depth of any description.  The film dragged on without managing to entertain or engage at all.  The characters were shallow and un-involving, they appeared on screen, uttered their lines in an unconvincing one-dimensional fashion, leaving the viewer literally not caring what happened to them next.  This film may have been &quot;adequate&quot; in 1941, but I expect more from a film than simply a dull story about an uninteresting person.  Awful.  1/10"
"Great films should certainly be appreciated in their context, but do you really expect me to believe that the perfect film was made in 1941, and that nobody, NOBODY has managed to improve upon it in the past 57 years?!? The technical achievement, level of performances, and level of intellectual complexity in film today make this look like a cave drawing. Sure, it's amazing for its time, so was Hitchcock, but PLEASE give it a rest. If you think this film is the end-all, be-all, then you haven't seen much. Stop aping the pretentious, outdated opinions of professional hacks like Pauline Kael, and watch movies from somewhere other than Hollywood."
"While I admire what they had to go through to get this movie produced, only the stupidly intellectual could call this a great film. Ask yourself: do you really care to find out what happens to Kane? Do you ever identify with the character? Like him? Root for him? Or are you just all caught up in the amazing camera acrobatics? All those people who voted 10, have they ever actually WATCHED the film or are they just doing what their teachers told them to do? I have to wonder. Try watching it at 11pm and see if you're still awake by midnight."
"I have no idea how Ed Wood, or anyone else for that matter, gained any inspiration from this movie, unless it was inspiration to drink heavily and hope you forget what you just saw. The opening scenes are paced quickly, but contain nothing interesting, after that the rest of the movie is pointless and boring. If you can stay awake for the end, you must have a very high tolerance for pain. To think that people rate this as one of the greatest movies of all time is absurd. Try watching Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas if you want the greatest movie of all time."
"I thought this was a very poor movie.  It definitely isn't the worst movie that I've seen, but it's no where near a classic.  I agree with most people that it was good for its time, but other than that it's awful.  The acting is very poor and after the first 10 minutes I knew exactly where the movie was going and what was going to happen.  The movie also is a very poor movie for entertainment.  Yes, it was supposed to show people that you shouldn't be greedy and all of that, but that's no reason for the movie to be boring. &quot;It's A Wonderful Life&quot; was a movie that was made to show people something, but it was still entertaining.  All in all I think that &quot;Citizen Kane&quot; is very overrated.  By the way, yes I did actually watch the whole movie."
I watched Citizen Kane and I had trouble staying awake. I couldn't get into the movie at all. I really feel that Citizen Kane was the worst movie I have ever seen.I would not recommend this movie to anyone. It was very boring and hard to follow.
"Every film critic says this movie is sooo good.  That is an absolute out-and-out LIE!  The techniques and junk used in this film were revolutionary and garbage like that, but the movie itself SUCKED!  The story line: dung from a dog, the acting; blech!  Vomit-inducing!  All-in-all, I want my two and a half hours back.  You might as well poke yourself in the eyes and save yourself the &quot;pleasure&quot; of seeing this movie.  Garbage, refuse, and trash!  Since the feedback requires ten lines of information, more slamming is coming this horrible excretable mass's way.  There is no redeeming value in this movie.  The movie should be rated on the actual MOVIE, not the techniques used in shooting it.  There is no way that this should even be on the shelves at BlockBuster, it should be behind the dumpster at McDonald's.  In the words of Jay Sherman, &quot;It stinks!&quot;  Are you happy now?"
"My comrades and I have been on a mission to watch most of the movies on the AFI top 100.  Most haven't been outstanding but they have been worthwhile, so we were quite excited to watch Citizen Kane.  However, it sucked.  It is definitely in the top 5...for worst movies.  It was not entertaining at all, so immediately I started looking for the things that supposedly brought it such great reviews, but there weren't any.  Everything seemed average, at the most.  Even though it was made in 1941, there were movies at that time that were quite a bit better: The Wizard of Oz, Casablanca, and a couple years later It's a Wonderful Life.  I watched this movie with 6 other people and by the time it was done only two of us were conscious.  The point of the movie is so stupid and it takes an incredible 2 hours...which seems like 80 hours...to get across.  I gave it a 1 on a scale of 1 to 10 and that's only because I couldn't give it a 0.  If you're trying to watch all the movies on the AFI list, you're going to have to watch this one, but brace yourself, you're in for it."
"I swear this is THE MOST BORING %&amp;^*ing movie ever, ever, ever made!  I was forced against my will to watch this for a college History of Film class. But this is not the pleasant, Quigley Down Under type of boring that peacefully puts you to restful sleep.  Citizen Kane is like one of those dull, pounding headaches accompanied by dry heaves at 3 in the morning, please, Lord, let me leave this life, sort of miserable suffering.  Half an hour into this movie, I was ready to reveal government secrets and abandon my family and religion - that is the kind of torture I am talking about. You know why so many people vote for this as the best movie of all time? Neither do they.  They have been indoctrinated and tortured by film professors who force them to watch this movie until they capitulate and call it genius just so the *(&amp;^ing movie will STOP, for the love of God, stop!"
"Quite simply, the most over-rated film in history. I get the sinking suspicion that the reason this film regularly appears on the best films lists is because people think that's what they're supposed to say. It's like saying you enjoyed wasting the better part of your adult life suffering through Tolstoy's groaner, 'War and Peace.' Or worse, nodding appreciatively as you endure the ear-drum piercing agony of anything Philip Glass has composed. Because, your cool friends say it's a master-work of music. Egad, spare me. Look, you can appreciate the innovative camera work of young Mr. Wells. But, that does not mean you cannot admit this is perhaps the most painful film-watching experience of your life. If I hadn't fallen asleep the first three times I tried to make it through this tedious movie, I would have found myself, as I did when I finally made it through the film the fourth time, wishing I'd done something more enjoyable..like cleaned the grout in the shower."
"How could the AFI put this in the top 100, let alone at number one! Oh, wait, all the AFI's top 100 movies are really awful, with the exception of Pulp Fiction, which is one of my favorite movies.  I mean, I fell asleep in the first 20 minutes! Nothing happens, just a millionare who owns a few newspapers. The film details his life, which I was only recently notified that it was the life of William Hearst. Who wants to see that? It's a couple trillion matte paintings and a timeline spanning 100,000 years and yes, I am exaggerating quite a bit. Sorry, but it really seems like that! It's so boring!  And just last week, I saw RKO281, which was about the making of it, and a supremely more entertaining film. I heard Orson Welles say &quot;It's all about the art! People go to the movies to see themselves!&quot; What? If I want to see myself, I look in the mirror. If I want to see someone else, then in my own imagination, pretend I'm that person, I go see a movie."
"I chose to watch this film solely because it was in the IMDB top 4, and with only one or two exceptions most of the top 20 are brilliant.  My first two attempts at watching it saw me fall asleep after about 20 minutes. The third time I made myself not move until the end, and it couldn't have come soon enough. It really is the most boring film I have ever seen.  There is no major criticism of this film, purely because it must be one of the few that are about absolutley nothing. OK it concerned somebody's political and media career, but then so have a thousand other TV shows and films. Are they really subjects interesting enough to warrant making any film about, let alone one as popular as this?  It lacks any action, suspense, humour or anything else a film needs. You can turn your brain off for two hours to watch this drivel as you won't need it. That is nothing to do with it being from the 1940's or in black and white. So were The Wizard of OZ, And Then There Were None and Casablanca and they are all brilliant.  I couldn't think of anything worse than a film being made today about Robert Maxwell or Rupert Murdoch's life. It would be as painfully dull and boring as this.  2 out of 10."
"It took me 3 tries, each attempt at least ten years apart, just to make it thru this one. Then the only reason I finished it was because I was in Mexico, and it was the only thing on TV in English! I'm convinced this is Wells' joke on Hollywood. No one could take this bunch of tripe, poor acting, lousy editing,and non-existent production values serious. I think Wells chuckled to himself every time someone lauded praise on this movie. As for myself, I'd rather watch paint dry, or given the choice again, something in Spanish!"
"Well, after all the hype that I have heard about this movie I expected something really awesome, but unfortunately Citizen Kane was one of the most pointless and boring movies that I have seen.  The AFI, filled with a whole bunch of stupid old guys thinking they know something were just trying to defend their era of movies. People go to see a movie to be entertained, not to be taught a lesson. This movie is just one of those examples."
"over 100 scene transitions in the first 5 minutes (yes I DID count them!) of the movie made it hard to sort out anything that followed -- the movie just made no sense at all -- I got so lost trying to follow all the scene transitions (and they were very poorly done) distracted from anything this movie could potentially be.  Acting aside, the director and cinematographer should have been shot..."
"What? Oh I see. The film was first with this...and...that. and oh don't forget about this...and that..blah blah. OK! Maybe so. But, well let me put it this way, the Flyer 1. Wright Bros. plane was first with a lot of things (for instance it actually flew) but compared with a Boeing 747 it is nothing. I think you agree.  Just because the movie was first with its thing, for 65 years ago, does not mean it shall be celebrated as a master piece today (as we do not see Flyer 1 as a plane of our choice before the 747). Today it is not worth it's time (nor dime) unless you are interested in movie history.  I do not say that old equals bad, for instance Bach, Beethoven and Mozart still are the best. Cervantes, Shakespeare and Dumas are still going strong. But they all were genius. Orson was not. He was skilled, as the Wright Bros. But built on their work even more skilled engineers and directors made something better and far more joy able. It is spelled development (As a Swede I must say that I'm not quite sure about English spelling at all, so honestly the last sentence is quite presumptuous)"
"I remember listening to the critics once before...it was a movie called &quot;In The Bedroom&quot; it was a waste of time and money.  Critics always seem to like boring shows and CK is no different.  Yeah, it's &quot;artsy&quot; and yes the story has a lot going on.  But, so did Momento.  Momento was slow, but it kept me on the edge of my seat; not to mention that killer ending.  If you are going to make a slow movie at least make it go somewheres, give me a good ending right?  Rosebud...awww who cares?  really now, he could have said anything and everyone one would have said &quot;hey the critics liked it, it's artsy, we'll like it too&quot;.  Remember the movie Crumb?  that got rave reviews...and it sucked!  I'm not a critic, i like to be entertained...this movie didn't entertain me.  So CK is in the 100 best huh?  I challenge you to sit through this show 10 times.  Can't do it?  Why I've sat through Braveheart at least 10 times...and i could do it again.  BOTTOM LINE: CK didn't make my top 100, not even close!"
"This movie is not even close to being the best movie of all time.  The acting is mediocre, the visuals are outdated, and the plot is JUST PLAIN BORING!!!  A rich recluse mutters &quot;rosebud&quot; right before he croaks and two very bland crusaders try to find out for some stupid reason why he died whispering something so ambiguous.  Does this really sound like the plot to the greatest movie of all time?  1941 has come and gone, viewers.  You can't keep arguing that Welles' moving of the camera makes this movie superb. If new cinematography techniques or technological breakthroughs constitute the world's greatest film, then Citizen Kane was dethroned long ago by Creature from the Black Lagoon and more recently by Terminator 2 and Jurassic Park. The other even more ridiculous defense of this movie's integrity is that Charles Foster Kane was the big-screen version of newspaper tycoon William Randolph Hearst.  Couldn't the same reasoning be used to crown Primary Colors, which features a Bill Clinton-like character, the greatest movie of all time?  Give it a rest.  Stop declaring this &quot;movie&quot; a masterpiece simply because everybody else is hopping on the CK-lovers' bandwagon."
"OK, seriously, I recently checked this movie out. Heres my summary:  The script? Ain't that bad. Still seems like rubbish to me. The acting? nothing spectacular. Directing: Just boring. Orson Welles certainly lacks imagination.  I have only one thing to say to people who worship this bad excuse for a movie: HELD BACK! I mean, seriously, this might have been nice to watch in the 40s, but hey, once upon a time, steam engines were called high technology! Go figure, or more accurately said: Check it out.  Back then, when there were no TVs, some people even called reading books &quot;action&quot;. Those times are over, even if art-conservatives like you wont understand if I told you a dozen time more. But don't worry: I WILL!"
"My God this is a movie, i never knew! Citizen Kane is the worst movie in the world, never in cinema one movie was so awful like Citizen Kane, everything is awful in this movie, Orson Wells, the story, the direction, the image, all other actors, everything is bad and 100% awful. The AFI is crazy, In my life I never understand why this movie is the first place, I will understand if Citizen Kane is the first place in one list &quot;the worst movie in the Planet&quot;, is boring, bad, I see this movie 3 times, because in the other 2 I sleep. Orson Wells is awful, ugly, and terrible. Sorry, but this movie is bad!"
"I finally came to the conclusion that this film is the most overrated hunk of crap ever to slash upon my television screen. The story was boring and I honestly tried to keep myself from falling asleep on the first 10 minutes, so I just turned it off and began watching Evil Dead. Evil Dead kicks this movie to hell.  Citizen Kane needed more zombies and people with shotguns, when we buy a DVD we want action, we want to enjoy the movie, but instead we were just drowned in a silly BORING plot about Rosebud. You've got to admit, this is an awful movie to say the least, I shoudn't have wasted my money on such monstrosity. The characters were boring, the plot was boring, the setting was boring, the whole movie was just PLANE BORRRRINGGGGGGGG. I cannot visualize people actually liking this movie, honestly i can't. I never want to watch this movie again. I have wasted 10 minutes of my life sitting through a boring poopy smelly movie, I would rather spend my 10 minutes sniffing penguin poop.  It needed Zombies, David Hasselhoff, Bruce Campbell, David Lo Pan, Shotguns and Agent Smith. THEN it would've been a better film. Good day."
"Why, oh why, did they ever waste all that money on this appalling movie? As many people have noticed, Waterworld is a total rip-off of Mad Max II (aka The Road Warrior) - substitute water for desert, jet skis for motor bikes, etc. The ridiculous thing is that this movie was the most expensive ever made and yet was vastly inferior to the original which cost something like $3 million.   Everything that was not copied was stupid. Such as a society which is so short of food-growing land that a tiny pot plant is worth a fortune, and yet no one appears to be going hungry! Or all the trillions of tons of water which have somehow appeared out of nowhere (anyone who thinks there's that much water locked up in the polar ice caps, or that the polar ice could all be melted without MASSIVE worldwide climate changes, needs to think again). And what about a man with implanted gills, so tiny they are virtually invisible, and yet capable of extracting enough oxygen from sea water to support his body indefinitely?   If you're going to spend all that money, why not use some of it to hire script writers (and maybe even an advisor or two) who know what they're talking about?"
"This is one of the movies that are bad simply because they give the wrong expectations. The basic idea, the setting, is fascinating, how will people survive if the water level go up dramatically? But from there, it seems they were not able to write a good script.  I have seen it happen in other movies too, (&#x22;Enemy mine&#x22; for instance): You start off with good intentions, but then you bail out, finding that the story might be too hard for the man on the street. So what do you do then? You throw in a bunch of mindless bad guys whose only purpose is to fight the hero.  And that is what happens here. Survival in a realistic hostile environment (an interesting and engaging problem) switches into survival in a bunch of non-realistic bad guys.  The result is not the worst movie ever made, not by far, but it is a very disappointing one. If it had had a name like &#x22;Water shootout&#x22; or something like that, I may have accepted it just as what it is.  You can compare it to Bond, or Pirates, or Swartzenegger. The big difference is the expectations.  So leave it in the bargain bin where it belongs. Or watch it as yet another cheap action movie. But don&#x27;t watch it as serious material in the climate debate."
"This movie has been panned in several aspects by many. I first watched it on TV, missing the &quot;big screen&quot; effect of seeing it in a theater. The cinematography was well done, considering all of the problems that are inherent is trying to film a futuristic story among only four sets, that are essentially minimal in design.   As far as my personal objections go, there are only two. The film took far too long to handle a rather simplistic subject -- the search for the &quot;dry land&quot; that so eluded everyone concerned. The other major fault is one of attitude. Costner is good looking and, almost always, is shown as quite handsome in his various roles. But, Costner seems able to play just one role -- Costner. He is a one-dimensional actor who is incapable of carrying any kind of accent for more than a single short sentence. Why doesn't he regularly employ a dialog coach when the role calls for it?   He also never gives up anything about himself or the role particular role he is playing, no hint of &quot;inner being&quot; which could make a connection with the audience. The result, at least in this particular story, is that I had a very hard time generating any sympathy for him at all. I simply couldn't have cared less whether or not he found his dry land at all.   This made for a really boring time, and I had to force myself to stay tuned for the entire excessive length of a story about a character that never got to first base. Too bad, because I think this subject could have been handled much better than it was. Another Costner excessive epic was &quot;The Postman&quot;, made a year or so later, which felt much to me like just another telling of the Water World story on a dry land locale. Both were Luke warm at best and way too long in length. Even Dances With Wolves (1991) had the same feel, and was only saved by the performances of the Lakota Sioux warriors and the breathtaking camera shots of the scenery.  I would recommend both movies for watching as rentals, but only if there are no other choices available and you have a lot of time to kill."
"Some interesting pictures (the underwater tour scene is quite interesting, though it could've been made better) and intriguing ideas (Costner's boat) but a very, very, very crappy script &amp; an equally crappy and hard-to-buy action scenes."
"The first time I saw Waterworld was almost 5 years ago, and I thought the movie was too long and too dull.  My friend Chris disagreed, telling me I was being too judgemental.  I decided it was only fair to watch Waterworld one more time.  Much to my own surprise, I discovered that Waterworld is a truly amazing film.  Let me break it down for you:  1.) The sets.  Chris has always been a big fan of the Atoll (the city near the beginning of the movie).  While the Atoll is impressive, I thought the oil tanker and Dryland were awesome sets too.  And the scenes on the water create a unique look for the film.  This movie broke new ground in creating a real world, and not a cheesy backlot shot sci-fi flick...which brings me to point two.  2.) Waterworld creates a unique science fiction world.  While Star Wars and Star Trek set out to create their own realities, they are still heavily grounded in our own world.  Waterworld stands out be crafting an entire mindframe that comes about from living your whole life on the water.  The characterization and logic stems from there.  It is not just people in costumes overacting for two plus hours, there is a lot going on here, from the Drifter's policies to the Smoker's screwed up perspective on anti-conservationism.  3.) The casting.  Kevin Costner brings a strong performance out of the Mariner character, creating a surly loner who manages to find his own heart. Jeanne Tripplehorm and Tina Majorino round out his ragtag family well. And the Smokers!  From Dennis Hopper's The Deacon down to the guy who played the human depth gauge (William Preston), the villians all seem to have motivation for their actions.  As wicked as he is, you never think Deacon is just a bad guy.  He's chasing the Mariner for a reason.   Even Battlefield Earth's own Kim Coates plays a strong role as a sex-crazed drifter.  But of course, BE gets an even worse rap (and even more undeserved bad rap) than Waterworld.  4.) The action sequences.  From the Atoll battle to the Mariner's last stand on the oil tanker, the action scenes are brilliant.  High-paced and explosive without relying on the Matrix tricks every film maker uses as a crutch these days.  This is truly what effects work can be with a some subtle computer work and a maximum of imagination.  5.) The story.  While on the surface, the plot is a simple Beauty and the Beast story, the characters and unique setting add depth and complexity to the story.  In the end, their search for Dryland and the relationships formed along the way are compelling.  The conflict between the Mariner/Atollers and the Smokers is between those who try to live with the world and those who want to squeeze it for every last drop of life.  6.) The little touches.  Subtle tricks help add to the already unique look of the movie.  The Mariner wears a computer chip as a necklace, a Rolex watch as a wristband, and ski boots on his feet.  The oil tanker is labelled Exxon-Veldez.  All of this reminds the viewer that they are still on Earth, even if it is not completely recognizable.  All in all, Waterworld is a terrific movie.  Sure, the budget was high, but the look and style of the movie shows every penny went up on the screen. Stories of overinflated budgets and luxuries are just made up by those with no real grasp of how the film industry really works.   And in the end, like most movies, Waterworld still managed to make a profit...thanks to the miracle of video and foreign distribution.  Besides, without Waterworld, the film industry would have never dared to make films like Titanic or Pearl Harbor, neither of which I think deserves to share the same sea!"
"Against popular opinion I don&#x27;t think this is a awful movie. I hope that we will see a remake of this movie someday. Hollywood instead of remaking for example &#x22;Mad Max&#x22; should work with movies that had potential like &#x22;Water world&#x22;.  Ironically this one is obviously inspired by &#x22;Mad Max&#x22; , but at least with some originality to it &#x96; a whole world full of water. It&#x27;s an really interesting and original idea. &#x22;Water world&#x22; starts promising with a dark ton (just like &#x22;Mad Max&#x22; ), but unfortunately quickly becomes a fairytale very in Spielberg&#x27;s style (pirates , orphan , mystical island) . Unfortunately Kevin Reynolds is no Spielberg and &#x22;Water world&#x22; lacks magic and charm typical for most of Spielberg&#x27;s movies.  Kevin Costner plays here a silent stranger. He&#x27;s OK as the dead pan, monosyllabic Good Guy. Dennis Hopper gives a hammy , but fun performance as the leader of pirates. Other actors are good.  The movie lacks true drama and deeper message . There is some stupidity here (the indestructible raft , the exploding water scooters) still it works as Sunday afternoon entertainment. I give it 4/10."
"What was wrong with it?  Alot.  The premise is impossible.  So only 100 or so feet of Mount Everest is above water?  That would mean the world was under 29,000 feet of water.  From what I have heard, even if the ice caps melted completely (as they have in the distant past), only the coastlines would be under about 300 feet of water. Sure it would be a disaster, but going from 300 - 29,000 feet is ridiculous. No telling how many people who saw this believed this could really happen and turned into evironmentalist wackos.  There was the scene where Costner dives to show the woman a ski resort area that was dry land.  The highest ski resort may be at 6,000 feet, tops? So Costner dove 23,000 feet down and survived where the pressure at those depths would crush even the most advanced submarine?  Apparently this movie is at least 500 years in the future since dry land is unheard of and not even stories of the way the world was were handed down thru the generations.  But, they still have functioning gasoline engines, an oil tanker, centuries old cigarettes and even a VCR/TV setup with a centuries old video tape that still works! So an old tanker survives, but not even one aircraft carrier, warship or submarine?  Those vessels would be the last ones to vanish considering they would have been fully stocked with tons of weapons and supplies before the waters rose.  And those ships would have intelligent crews, unlike the morons in Dennis Hopper's crew.  Of course throwing in the Exxon Valdez was just another ridiculous attempt to make a point about the evils of oil.  Wonder how Mr. Costner and company can ever fill up at the gas station without feeling like hypocrites?  This was nothing more than a big budget rip off of the 'Road Warrior' (the best post apocalyptic film ever made)."
"The Mariner (Kevin Costner) is a loner sailing his jerry-rigged trimaran through a world of water. Dry land has become mythical. He battles pirates known as Smokers and thieves that roam the ocean. He freedives with his gills to salvage from the drowned cities. He arrives at a floating settlement to trade his recovered dirt. The locals discover him to be a mutant and take him prisoner. The town is attacked by the Smokers led by the Deacon (Dennis Hopper). Helen (Jeanne Tripplehorn) and Enola (Tina Majorino) rescue the Mariner and they escape. Enola has a tattoo on her back which could point to dry land.  This is an infamous financial failure although it&#x27;s not a complete cinematic failure. I really like the concept of a waterworld and some of the action. There are still many problems which keep me from recommending this movie. Dennis Hopper is too much of a cartoon villain. He needs to be more realistic to be threatening. It&#x27;s trying to follow the Mad Max model but it doesn&#x27;t quite work. Also for a water-borne adventure, this really lacks a storm sequence. It should be simple to transfer Mad Max onto the waters but I stop caring once they get on the tanker. I like the world of the trimaran a lot more and wish they stay there."
"&#x22;Waterworld&#x22; occupies that awkward space between so-bad-it&#x27;s-good and terrible. Neither, but somehow bo- ... no, still neither. Its notoriety as a colossal flop notwithstanding, there&#x27;s nothing here to revile (aside from some garish set design) and it&#x27;s not really much more than a pretty dull ripoff of &#x22;The Road Warrior&#x22;. Despite the post-apocalyptic setting, this is surprisingly vanilla - and the only thing that really feels alive here is Dennis Hopper, out of place though he may be.  This is a movie whose title has become shorthand for box office disaster, so I was expecting (hoping for) something I can have some ironic fun with. But it&#x27;s played laser-straight and makes me want to pop in a Mad Max movie instead.  Where&#x27;s the fun in that?   5/10"
"First time I&#x27;ve seen this film since it was released 20 years ago. I&#x27;ve not even watched it all as yet but it seems just OK at best so far.   My main gripe however is the ridiculous hole in the plot. If it is indeed set hundreds of years after the Polar ice caps have melted then how the hell are they still riding around on diesel powered jet skis and boats, smoking factory-made cigarettes and firing ammunition despite no land and therefore no raw materials or facilities to make them.   I can accept all the rest. The script is pretty cheesy and so is the acting. Because it was big-budget they&#x27;ve obviously gone for the family market instead of being brave and aiming for a more mature market such as the Mad Max films. Even if they&#x27;d gone down the route they chose but announced at the start of the film that it was set a few decades after the mass flooding took place it would explain the quite simply preposterous suggestions that the survivors are still using equipment from the present day. It&#x27;s just abysmal writing and poorly thought out. Completely ruins any aspect of it being remotely feasible.   Anyway, no regrets about waiting 20 years to see it."
"&#x22;Waterworld&#x22; is a very imaginative story. No doubt about that. It&#x27;s set at some unspecified point in the future on an earth that none of us would recognize. The basic story is that the polar ice caps have completely melted and there&#x27;s no dry land left - well, except for a perhaps mythical place called - appropriately enough - Dryland. It&#x27;s implausible (actually, impossible) right from the start. According to my research, even if the polar ice caps did melt the water levels would rise about 200 feet. That&#x27;s a lot, but there are a lot of things in our world taller than 200 feet - some natural and some man made - so the earth wouldn&#x27;t be immersed in water to quite this extent. But, hey, it&#x27;s fiction. It doesn&#x27;t have to make sense. It has to entertain.  For a while, it does that. At first it&#x27;s interesting enough just to try to get a sense of this world. What&#x27;s it about? Who lives on it? What sort of &#x22;culture&#x22; has developed in these conditions? We find out about those things through the eyes of the Mariner (Kevin Costner) - a lone sailor with a pretty interesting boat that seems to have lots of gadgets. Through him we find out about the Smokers - basically pirates - and we discover the atoll - a floating community in the middle of the ocean (but then again, isn&#x27;t everything in the middle of the ocean if there&#x27;s only ocean?) where the Mariner comes to trade. Here, he discovers a little girl named Enola (Tina Majorino) and her sort of adoptive mother Helen (Jeanne Tripplehorn) who want to escape the atoll and search for Dryland. The Mariner gets in trouble, is discovered to be a mutant (with gills and webbed feet) and is about to be killed, when the Smokers attack. They want Enola, because she has a map tattooed on her back that they believe is a map that will lead them to Dryland. Why she has the map tattooed on her back is a bit of a mystery.  The first hour or so as we learned about all this was pretty interesting actually. Costner was good; so was Tripplehorn. But the story settled into little more than a routine action/adventure in the last hour or so. Once we had learned the basics about Waterworld, there was nothing more really interesting about it, and action/adventures are pretty commonplace. You need something more to hold the viewers&#x27; interest. Yes, there&#x27;s the search for Dryland, but that really just serves as an excuse for the Smokers to kidnap Enola, and for the Mariner to set out to rescue her. It has all the standard stuff you&#x27;d see in any action movie, there&#x27;s nothing especially dramatic about the end of the search for Dryland, and the plot is full of holes.  The first hour isn&#x27;t too bad; after that I thought this simply ran out of steam. (5/10)"
"Waterworld (1995) is a action rampage that has a lot of good things going on but still lacks so much to be a great or even a good film. Kevin Costner (Mariner) does decent job in the lead and the action is often nicely presented but what I mostly missed from the film was a good script aka. a good story.  The imaginative and interesting story premise of a post-apocalyptic world without land that Waterworld presents, offered a vast array of story lines to be told but somehow the producers and writers picked the &#x22;cheesy one&#x22; from the bunch. The sets are great and the film does look good but the lack of an imaginative story undermines everything good the film has to offer. I&#x27;d say that a more darker and grittier story would have fitted the post-apocalyptic setting better than the &#x22;adventurous&#x22; (I suppose) one presented in the film.  The film&#x27;s a bit of a wasted opportunity really, could have been better. Dennis Hopper (Deacon) was great! 2/4"
"Waterworld is a great not so great film. I love the idea of the world being covered by water and no land is left for life to survive on it. That alone is a very creepy thought and it works for a story. However it is merrily a Mad Max on water. So the whole plot is sort of copied and the story doesn&#39;t go much further than Mad Max so it&#39;s not directly an improvement. However the recycling pee scene at the beginning is quite something. But the film is predictable and the ending is a different genre (princess diaries) so not exactly a great execution of a great idea. Besides the production problems that happened during filming, the directing is somewhat lame. The acting is rather b movie but OK. The character development is weak. I still enjoyed it and thought it was entertaining!"
"It's amazing how a movie that *nets* $80 million in profit (worldwide business minus production/advertising costs) can be considered a dud. As a business venture, it was to be envied...as cinema, it was so-so, and therein lies the perceived failure.  It begins promisingly enough with a clever segue to another world. The Universal logo is 'drowned', visually demonstrating where we're headed.  ** Quick reality check...**   There isn't enough water frozen in the polar caps to inundate the earth in the manner we're expected to accept here. Simple algebraic explanations (which are easily googled) demonstrate that, at worst, sea level rise would be 150 - 160 feet above present...not nearly enough to engulf all the land...this would be dealt with more competently in &quot;A.I.&quot; and &quot;Day After Tomorrow&quot;.  So the premise is ridiculous, but not uniquely so. We as a culture routinely accept that we can be entertained by 'movie reality'.  Nor is this in any way original...the point of departure is 'Mad Max' cross-pollinated with the 'Man from Atlantis'...but originality is not so important either.  I think what's really missing is a compelling hero. This is Kevin's star vehicle, delivered to him at the point in his career that he could have anything, ANYTHING, he wanted. But he had no idea how to play this any way but straight. Being taciturn is not the problem...in comparison, Mel's character was no less tight-lipped. But he knew how to deliver Max with a wink and a nod. In contrast, there's no fun here, just a scene-chewing competition with Hopper (Hopper wins without much of a fight).  Worst of all, it suffocates in moralizing; the evil 'Smokers' smoke up the cigarette supply, there is the last voyage of the 'Valdez', the global warming message is placed at the level of 'the sky is falling', but taken in complete seriousness...it's quite amazing how many viewers drank this Kool-Aid.  As in &quot;Dances With Wolves&quot;, the canvas is stronger than the star...at no point can Costner figure out how to elicit the vision that the co-creators had in mind...instead, the blue panorama wins."
"In the first scene of &quot;Waterworld&quot; Kevin Costner urinates in a cup. This is a horrible beginning for one of the most anticipated films ever. I expected stunning visual effects, good acting, in other words a  top notch action film.  But this film, so anticipated by the world did none of the above.  Instead the film crew skipped a entire available generation of visual effects and original action sequences for relatively mundane theatrics.   My hero in this film is Dennis Hopper. He  alone rescued this film from Total disaster. I was a youngster when I saw this film and Dennis  Hopper was so scary and evil, I could not help thinking how much he enjoyed his role.   I loved the ending  because it demonstrated that at least the director was true to the story artistically .   &quot;Waterworld&quot; was promoted as the new milestone of visual effects; instead the audience and I wasted two hours.  When the movie ended, I remember that my father turned to me and said, &quot;this film is lousy.&quot;  I wish I could recommend this film because I expected so much from it but I can't. My rating is 6 out of 10."
"Waterworld wasn't a terrible movie, but it wasn't a very good one either. As a special effects showcase, it's wonderful, even if much of the vast budget ended up on the bottom of the ocean. As science fiction, it's stupid: Kevin Costner's gills, the mountains covered but flooded cities accessible, paper valuable but cigarettes present in quantity, etc. As a post-world-flood fantasy story, it's a decent story. If it hadn't been a rip-off of the Mad Max movies, the story would have deserved more credit as decent light fantasy.  The best thing that could have been done with the story would have been to rewrite it into a romantic comedy in a science-fantasy setting -- that would have taken advantage of its better points, and reduced its failure to be a strong high seas remake of Road Warrior. I know co-writer David Twohy can do better work -- he wrote and directed the science fiction masterpiece The Arrival one year later. Too bad he wasn't as sharp on this one.  The character development is actually pretty decent, between Costner's blandly-acted character, beautiful Jeanne Tripplehorn, and amazing Tina Majorino. The other characters are filler, although Dennis Hopper is an amusing villain.  The best things about the movie are the cinematography and Tina Majorino's acting. The worst thing about it is the fact that its budget could have been spent to make several better movies.  My comments are based on the ABC television version, which is apparently 40 minutes longer than the theatrical release."
"Average, unoriginal plot, good SFX for the time. But &#150; It took time for the water levels to rise. Everyone just gave up and drowned? No floating cities, tons of boats, etc? Why was dry-land uninhabited &#150; it would be over-run. Come on &#150; use common sense. The waters rise, you move to higher ground or onto ships, boats &#150; anything that floats. There was a generation to plan for this! Watch &quot;Blue Submarine #6&quot; &#150; an Anime with a similar scenario (with the addition of genius sharks that talk :) ) Sure the population will drop &#150; but not to the pitiful handful in this truly idiotic vision of a planet covered in 99.9% water.  What about the big-SFX scene &#150; The mariner and his babe in the home-made bathescape (which would not work BTW, it would have flooded before 100&#39;, especially with that dinky compressor) &#150; there&#39;s a nuclear sub jammed into a building in the middle of the sunken city. Uh, why? This was a slow rising of the waters, not a tidal wave! Again, stupid eye candy with no forethought or logic.  Or at the end &#150; the girl falls over 100&#39; from the balloon, yet makes a splash as if she jumped from the side of a small boat. The 100&#39; fall would have probably killed her."
"I watch this movie in its entirety every time its on just for its comedic value. This movie was so poorly written, cast, scripted and directed on such a large scale that it is almost unfathomable. It&#39;s not unlike watching videos of people running their faces into concrete walls whilst performing mundane stunts....completely utterly retardedly addiction, but never ceases to make you laugh.... no matter how many times you see it. There were so many holes in the plot that you could make a college drinking game out of watching it. Drink one shot for every ridiculous visual that makes no sense whatsoever. One shot for a statement that doesn&#39;t jibe with the the story or plot line. One shot for every ridiculous character. One shot for every ridiculously cheesy costume design. One shot for every completely ridiculous mad max type vehicle in the movie. The reason why there is no game like this, is because people would be dead of alcohol poisoning within 30 minutes of the opening curtain.  The same people that wrote the glowing reviews for this movie are the same lemmings that like such things as pet rocks, spandex, Flowbee Haircuts and art made with Feces or Urine.  Kevin Costner then had the testicular fortitude to make nearly the same movie a few years later, only land based, with &quot;The Postman&quot;.  Kevin Costner is either the single greatest salesman that ever lived, or just happened to find the dumbest movie studio exec with veto powers that either can&#39;t read, or just plain doesn&#39;t read scripts, because I just cannot imagine what would ever have possessed a Major Studio to give him another thin dime to make the equally ridiculous &quot;The Postman&quot;."
"The biggest problem with Waterworld, like other major blockbuster flops, is its lack of substance. On a bleak, watery surface, is a promising, beautifully created cosmos, with plenty of love and respect put in to its composition. On the inside is a reserved, desolate hero (Costner) wasted by a dull script and even duller characters. His nonchalance towards Helen (Tripplehorn) and youngster Enola (Majorino), who accompany him on his mission to find land is incoherent, like an anti-hero without the engaging essentials. His companions are just as bad, weakened by a bombastic script, with Dennis Hopper&#x27;s comical baddie getting the brunt of it. There&#x27;s potential throughout this film, but not enough intensity to keep us entertained."
"Some people start out by saying &#x27;this is actually a good movie&#x27; or &#x27;this movie is way underrated&#x27;--they are mistaken. What they mean to say is that for a crap movie this pile of crap is not so bad, Waterworld! This is a great movie to fold laundry to or to watch while you straiten up the house. The tag line of the movie should have been &#x27; Time to get that house work done!&#x27;. Sorry Kevin Costner, not that you would ever read this, Mr. Costner this movie sucks because you told a small story on a set far too grand for it. You had a fine cast, but they were stretched too thin trying to cover all the ground you gave them. Had Waterworld run as a seven or eight hour epic, the sets would have been logical."
"A soggy (sorry, couldn&#x27;t resist) action adventure movie set in a post-apocalyptic age when the ice caps have melted and flooded the earth. Think of it as Mad Max meets the Wisconsin Dells.  Actually, though it&#x27;s not really very good, it&#x27;s far from the disaster it was proclaimed when released. It&#x27;s no worse than any number of cheesy action spectacles, and the big sets that caused so many production woes do manage to look fairly impressive. Kevin Costner is ridiculous, but that&#x27;s only surprising to people who hadn&#x27;t already seen him in &#x22;Robin Hood,&#x22; and Dennis Hopper is a hoot as the crazy warlord villain.  Why is it that every version of the apocalypse shows all surviving humans wearing S&#x26;M gear? Are porn shops the only remnants of the human race that manage to make it to the other side of oblivion?   Grade: C"
"Granted this movie has a very interesting premise and some wonderful cinematography which make it look great but it has plot holes and inconsistencies that you could navigate a boat through. Also lets not forget the completely two-dimensional characters, wooden acting on the most part and a script that probably needed to get lost at sea. However, the action is good, the photography stunning and Dennis Hopper as always is a great villain. But the film&#39;s shortcomings are definitely on display here after the amount of money spent on production so it is a complete lack of substance mixed with annoying characters (especially that goddamn kid) that on the whole let down what could have, on paper, and technicality wise, been a great flick.  5/10"
"While I gave this movie 5/10, I have to confess that I enjoyed it. It is relatively mild with respect to violence. A kid could almost watch this movie, except for a couple of disturbing scenes.  The worst aspect of the movie is that it fluctuates wildly between parts which are really well done, and parts which just caused me to roll my eyes. At one point, our hero dives to the bottom of the ocean with no special gear, and the women who goes with him seems not to require returning to the surface slowly to avoid the bends.  There is any number of places in the movie where suspension of disbelief becomes rather laboured, due to incredible luck at being in the right place at the right time. One character is able to hit a plane with a harpoon at quit some distance while aiming straight it (rather than in front of it, to compensate for its motion during the time it takes for the projectile to hit it), to give another example of hard-to-believe scripting.  I could go on for pages about things like this, or bad lines, or poorly choreographed action, or unsuitable mixing of humour and seriousness, or incredibly corny details of various kinds, but in the end, if you can accept that it is just a second-rate action-fantasy movie, you may have a fun time watching it."
"Critics demolished &quot;Waterworld&quot; in Argentina too but honestly I can&#39;t understand why. This is not a great film and perhaps not even a really good one, but in fact it doesn&#39;t lack some sort of originality as a sci-fi product in a post apocalyptic time. I don&#39;t think I would see &quot;Waterworld&quot; often or even twice, but it&#39;s worth at least one viewing in my opinion.  The film is too long and has many rhythm blanks but it has some good moments too (the underwater tour provided by Costner to Tripplehorn through the once powerful and now sunk city, the destruction of the big tanker in which the Deacon has established his headquarters, the action sequences acceptably handled. Kevin Costner might not be the right choice to play the mutant but he is not Steve Reeves either.  &quot;Waterworld&quot; won&#39;t make history in the movies but I&#39;ve seen similar or even worst big budget flaws (&quot;Cleopatra&quot;, &quot;Heaven&#39;s Gate&quot;, &quot;Raintree County&quot;) that were not as bad treated as this oneby the critics.  Not a good film at all but if you&#39;re honest you can&#39;t say its a complete disaster either. either."
"While i find Kevin Costner to be one of the most over-rated actors and directors of his generation, i actually find this movie to be underrated. That, on the other hand, has nothing to do with Costners performance.  Many people describe this as a &quot;Mad Max on water&quot;. I can agree with that description. The same black sense of humor and scrap-yard props can be found here. I enjoyed the first two Mad Max-movies (especially &quot;The Road Warrior&quot;) quite a lot, and maybe that's why i get a soft spot for this movie as well. Granted, this is no masterpiece and i still hold &quot;The Road Warrior&quot; a better movie, but as a Mad Max substitute this works.  There was a lot of discussion surrounding this movie when it first came out. Most of it was about economics. The movie became catastrophically expensive before everything was said and done, and the ratings at the box-office were a great disappointment. But i felt too much focus was directed at this instead of at the movie itself. This is not too shabby actually. Costner is his usual boring self, but Dennis Hopper seems to enjoy himself immensely as the antagonist. Also most of the movie is well made technically with several nicely filmed action sequences.  So if you can forget about plausibility, forget about studio politics and ignore Kevin Costners wooden acting, this is actually quite enjoyable. The key is to not expect a miracle and rather just sit back for the ride. I rate it 5/10."
"I first saw Waterworld in the theatre a few years ago - and I didn't like it. I gave it a second chance last night on TV and I still didn't like it. ... and I'm not even sure why. The premise is interesting - Mad Max on water, with many ideas seemingly lifted from &quot;Pandora&quot; by Frank Herbert, ecological themes...  I don't know what went wrong, probably the script, or direction, or both. See, Kevin and his passengers are dead serious while the smokers are cartoony (and downright funny). It's like trying to mix two genres in the same movie.  Then, it's impossible to like Kevin's character, and this is probably the deepest flaw. In an action movie you want to relate to the hero and want him/her to succeed. Mind you, this isn't an intellectual movie, with complex personalities, where characters are more than just good/evil. Kevin the seaman is not complex, he's just dull.  You can't even laugh at this movie. 4 out of 10."
"The reason this movie cost 300 million to make is the island cost 50 million to build and Keven Costner lived in a house that cost 1,500 a night,that breaks down to about 2 million during the movie shoot,plus the fact Costner made 15 million for the movie. For all that money he wasted he got nothing for it,waterworld was a terrible terrible movie,bad acting,bad everything. 3 out of 10"
"This must be one of the most infuriating films ever made. Its strengths are an intriguing scenario, an absorbing first hour and a robust performance from Dennis Hopper. So, what happens then? The second hour degenerates into an incredibly hackneyed &quot;lonesome hero protects woman and cute kid&quot; story before dribbling away into an insultingly obvious conclusion. This doesn't make &quot;Waterworld&quot; an altogether bad film, but it could - indeed, should - have been so much better. Full marks for trying, Kevin - but try again eh?"
"At the start this film had promise, however the plot never left the first scene of: The world has no land, its all covered with water. After knowing this you can safely miss the next 90% of the film and just watch the final scene without missing anything significant. However Kevin Costner is more believable in this than in Robin Hood Prince of Theves. However for a film with no plot that wastes two hours of your life its rather encapsulating. I found it hard to draw myself away from the picture as I was worried that something interesting would happen and I might miss it; however when the credits appeared I knew that I had been disappointed."
"Yes I actually sat through this entire film and I can confidently say that it is bad -- very bad. Picture _The Road Warrior_ with a vast ocean wasteland instead of a vast dry wasteland. Then throw in the futuristic love story, as well as the leading man, of _The Postman_ and you can pretty much predict this entire movie. It's an adventure story mixed with sci-fi mixed with the cheesy romance that is all too common in films featuring Mr. Costner and it is not done convincingly. There is a hero, a woman, and a girl, evil gangs, lovable comrades, cheesy comic relief and a storybook ending. Just change the character names, the place names and the setting, throw it all into the formula and you get standard Hollywood drudge. And they wonder why no one goes to movies anymore."
"The four saddest words in the English language are &quot;what might have been&quot;, and Waterworld certainly fits into this template: an interesting premise hampered by terrible direction, a script so full of dud one-liners it makes your average adult film sound like Shakespeare, and acting (with the possible exception of Costner) that is cringeworthy in the extreme. The stunt sequences are simply too boring to even care about, and while Costner is one of the biggest movie stars of the past two decades, action man he ain't.  Inexplicably, the direction team seems to have given Dennis Hopper a carte blanche to shamelessly overact whenever possible. While this style was disarmingly effective in some of his earlier movies (such as Blue Velvet), he is just laughable here: producing an array of facial contortions complete with the frequent eye-bulging symptomatic of a drug addict. If this is supposed to be the point, it fails miserably, as Hopper's maniacal laughter and irrational gesturing made me want to personally set fire to his union membership forms. Costner is far more restrained (some have argued that Costner is never anything OTHER than restrained) as the mysterious boatman with the novelty earring, and he is somewhat believable in his role without ever really getting under the skin (gills?) of his character. The real problem lies in the the performance of Jeanne Tripplehorn, as the the maternal survivor of Hopper's plot to destroy their floating communal home. Quite simply, Tripplehorn is disastrous, on a par with Madonna in Swept Away and your choice of Affleck or Lopez in Gigli. I'm trying to think of terrible performances, and ultimately Tripplehorn shares the award with Elizabeth Hurley in Bedazzled. Suffice to say, she's not up to much.  The romantic moments (usually a reliable facet of typical Costner films) have little or no chemistry due to the detailing of Costner's character as an emotionless iceman. But to be fair to him, I wouldn't have any romantic inclinations towards Jeanne Tripplehorn either.  That said, Waterworld has its moments. The occasional action piece is well constructed, and the conclusion (whilst a sentimental cop out) is satisfactory.  Overall, though, this is a blot on the careers of all involved.  4/10"
"I was excited to see &quot;Waterworld&quot; when it came out back in 1995. I guess I was too stupid to have heard of its awful advance previews and its months on the shelves; an action delivered by a studio fearing wasting money on a hugely expensive flop.  Well, they wasted their money, all right. This film (which cost way too much - i.e. millions upon millions) is rightfully acknowledged as one of the largest disasters in cinema history. Rivalling &quot;Battlefield Earth&quot; in the Ego of the Star department, this was supposedly a personal battle of Kevin Costner. He saw potential in the project and fought to get it made.  Now let's look at this logically, yes? The plot: The future is a post-apocalyptic world where polar ice caps have melted or something, and hence the world is a floating assortment of pirates, ships and people who look like they just stumbled out of a 1492: The Legend of Columbus re-enactment.  Oh yes, it's bad. What did Costner see in the material? I don't know. Whatever it was, it seemed to put his career on hold for more than a few years. Even when he came back, he never really &quot;came back.&quot; It's interesting that Costner has made two disaster post-apocalypse movies...this and &quot;The Postman.&quot; You may be asking yourself why a man as well-adjusted as Costner has a fixation on destruction and chaos? Well, there's only one answer: I have no idea. Whatever it is, I suggest he seek psychiatric help immediately. I don't want to have to sit through a &quot;Waterworld II: The Return of the Postman&quot; any time soon."
"I love films like this, and what a great concept.  Regrettably, this film has no continuity and drags until its conclusion.  Too long, and too many senseless scenes.  There is a few good action scenes, and that is the only grace for this film.  Costner's performance is awful, I do not know if the script was intended to make his character look wooden or withdrawn, but the audience lacks any sympathy for the man.  Huge error for the script; maybe, they were trying to copy the Road Warrior.  This film is an example that a high budget can not replace a good script, or a good rewrite.  I find this sad, because with one more rewrite this film  would be a classic, and give Costner the long last mark of his film legacy.   I like him better as the bad guy with his silent approach, instead of the hero.  Do not watch 3/10"
"Kevin Reynolds and Kevin Costner co-directed this big-budget science fiction-adventure film set in an undetermined future time after the polar ice caps have melted, flooding the world with water, and the few human survivors either exist in boats as scavengers or pirates. One such scavenger named Mariner(played by Kevin Costner) meets a woman(played by Jeanne Tripplehorn) and a young girl who are sought after by pirates(led by Dennis Hopper) who want them for a map of dry land that is somehow tattooed on the girl&#x27;s back, and Mariner must protect them so that they can reach it themselves...if it really exists. Mostly waterlogged film had some potential but is squandered in a clich&#xE9;d plot, and story that fails to involve the viewer. For all the money spent on it, it should aspire to be more than &#x22;Mad Max&#x22; on the water!"
thats exactly what it is...if you liked Mel Gibson's Roadwarrior movies you might like it even though the idea is totally stolen...also watch if you wanna see Costner drink his own pee...not a good movie not terrible either...5 out of 10-
"The beginning of the movie looked well, but just after the first action-scene it just went down. We find all the usual types. The evil type with all his evil plans about kidnapping the little girl, to get the tattoo-map on her back. We have the tough good-guy who lives alone on the sea. He's a mutant, he can breath under water and has enhanced senses. He doesn't like the girl and the woman at all. But of course he calms down at last, and becomes the usual over-sensitive macho-hero that will go through fire and risk his life to save his little friend.  So, thumbs down, i gave it a 3 out of 10."
"I was visiting a friend for a weekend and was having trouble sleeping , he said &quot;i have the perfect solution&quot; His perfect solution was the movie Waterworld. I had not seen this movie before so in the video went and sure enuff , i was out within an half an hour and slept like a baby all through the nite.  I woke the next morning wondering what happend in the movie that was SO boring that i fell asleep ( i am usually good at staying awake throught even the most boring movie) so i decided to brew a pot of coffee and slam it previous to watching the movie again. i finally after a few sitting and pots of coffee got through this entire movie , and in my opinion was that this was the MOST BORING MOVIE EVER. the only thing that made this movie even remotely watchable were the funny quotes by the deacon char. Piece, The 55"
IMHO and for what it's worth: cinematography...top-quality; plot...a somewhat (un)pithy fish story.  My overall film rating: 4 (of 10).
"who can&#39;t see a reason to watch this movie.Really,I can&#39;t.Kevin Costner is not an action-hero to begin with,he is best suited for romantic dramas and maybe comedies.NOT action and adventure. The movie itself is of course a Mad Max rip-off as many already stated. A very obvious one.I like gloomy visions of the future,but there are so many better ones out there.Blade Runner,for instance.Seeing Kevin Costner dressed up as a fish-man is not my cup of tea.  The basic story is that earth&#39;s ice sheets has melted due to environmental destruction and the surface is covered with oceans.A man who has become so adapted to the new environment that he&#39;s partially fish;appears like the lone ranger living on a raft,alone,independent,strong,tough,extracting drinking water from his urine.He encounters a fraction of people living in a kind of society in the middle of nowhere,he fights villains,meets beautiful woman,fights more villains.Seems familiar? He eventually becomes the messiah-type figure who is supposed to lead people to a mythical Dry Land.  The scenery is great though,I admit I&#39;m a sucker for grand scenery."
"A film that so much has been talked about; you shouldn't get past the point that it's actually no good whatsoever.  Kevin Costner films are legendary for two things: going on for ever and being rubbish.  This succeeds on both counts.  The acting is terrible [even the usually excellent baddie Dennis Hopper is a shadow of some of his other roles], the story is just silly and about the only thing worth seeing is some brilliant camera work in some of the panoramic scenes towards the end.  Don't waste your time - you have better things to do with 5 billion hours!"
"Titanic, another expensive 1990s movie, managed better to combine action and chick flick.  This is an action movie that manages badly  the romantic side (but makes the effort). The ending is American.  I was surprised at the boringly obvious left-wing Hollywood slant to the story.  Those terrible, terrible corporations and those greedy, rapacious gas-guzzlers.  For such a budget, I thought the morality could be higher priced.  Compared to Heaven's Gate, Waterworld was in fact fun to watch.  No endless wedding scenes or pointless dance sequences.  But see Waterworld in 5.1 digital on a wide home screen.  The sound alone is a couple of hundred million great."
"I don't care about how much the movie cost. I just saw an interesting and sumptuary start that led to a stupid hollywoodish happy-ending. With the Mariner starting to like the little girl and boarding the big freighter to rescue her, the film became ridiculously pc, extremely predictable, and boring. Good thing, I got to see it for very little money!"
"Move 'Mad Max 2: The Road Warrior' from Broken Hill to Hawaii, lobotomize the script, replace Mel Gibson with Kevin Costner, add a $100 million or so, and this is what you get. Hopper is typecast as the villain, but at least he's more fun than the wooden Costner. There are some good jokes and exciting moments, but just think how many INTERESTING movies could have been made with this much money, and you'll see why so many people hate it."
"I hated this movie.  Instead of renting this, rent Mel Gibson's &quot;Road Warrior,&quot; since they are both basically the same but Gibson is much better than Costner.  Dennis Hopper was the high point of the movie, but it's a shame they spent so much money to make such a bomb."
"All I could think of while I was watching this derivative, hokey, silly sci-fi fantasy was: &quot;They could have made ten $20 million movies for what this cost.&quot;  Think about it--ten &quot;The Usual Suspects,&quot; ten &quot;Fargo&quot;s, ten &quot;This is Spinal Tap&quot;s, ten . . .  I don't want to think about it."
"I predicted the entire plot after seeing five minutes of the movie.  Hoped for a plot twist, was disappointed.  I don't understand why even hard-core sci-fi geeks could have liked this one.  The only redeeming feature was the set design; concentrating on it kept me from killing myself."
I worked on this movie as an extra.  I was one of the &quot;smokers&quot; on the deck of the &quot;Dez&quot; (or however you spell the name of the tanker).  This movie was very disappointing.  With all that money they surely could have made a better movie.  Save your money and don't see this movie.
"I worked on this movie as an extra.  We were on the deck of the old tanker. Although there was some creative work on this movie in the end it was rather uncreative and failed to exploit an interesting concept.  I want to be proud of the movies I have been in, but this movie does not make me proud."
"A friend once told me that if the North Pole was to be melted, Earth would become nothing but a huge ocean.  That was probably the purpose for WATERWORLD, a movie possibly inspired by that theory.  It tries to be the greatest movie ever made and then it becomes nothing more than a laughing stock for the sad and lonely.  This film has awful special effects, a pointless story and a ridiculously huge budget (it was the most expensive movie ever made at the time of its release).  A pitiful excuse for an epic masterpiece.  0 out of 5"
"This is what I call disappointment. I've seen 'Waterworld' a few years ago and I still believe that this is one of the worst high budget movies ever made. It's not entertaining, there is no suspense or action, there is nothing interesting in it. And Costner... I never liked him (although I appreciate his parts in 'Dances with Wolves' and &quot;The Untouchables') but this is probably his worst act ever. You shouldn't watch this film, even if you have nothing else to do."
"I echo the sentiments of the reviewer who feels shorter after seeing this movie, and I urge all to avoid it.  I saw it, thankfully, for free on TV, and did not enrich the producers in any way.  I love good post-apocalyptic fiction.  That made me doubly disappointed in this movie.  While spending money (or even without spending much), why not make a coherent, believable world?  Costner did the same thing he did in The Postman.  He took an interesting, fruitful premise and killed it with humorless acting, self-aggrandizement, and a need for too many action shots.  (The Postman, BTW, was originally a *wonderful* book by David Brin.  Now my memory of that book is tarnished by the memory of the movie.)  How, we are left to wonder, could hardened mortals survive without the Mariner or the Postman to guide them?  A much better use of one's time would be to sit for a couple of hours and imagine &quot;What would life be like in a water-covered world?&quot;  I guarantee that this will provide better ideas than the entire creative talent of this movie did."
"Bad movies amaze me. Nothing can be more fun in the Saturday evening than settling in my favorite chair with a couple of beers and a remote, then finding a really bad movie and enjoying it to the full extent of its stupidity. I love finding plot holes in lame scripts, predicting cliched lines of cartoonish characters, and making fun of lousy acting. To me, Waterworld was just what I needed. I laughed and I cried for 2 1/2 hours. After the final credits rolled I booted up my laptop and logged on to IMDB with the intention of writing a praise to this masterpiece of bad-movie-making. I thought the fun was over. Wrong. In the user reviews I read this, and I quote:  &quot;Star Wars makes me laugh,Terminator-2 makes me cry,WATERWORLD makes me THINK.&quot;  After reading this, I literally fell off my chair. Now, the Usenet acronym &quot;ROTFL&quot; has a whole new meaning to me. Damn Ukrainians and their twisted sense of humor.  Rating: 1/10, yeah!"
"This movie is so bad you expect to see Kevin Costner in it.  Huge budget exceeded by Kevin Costner's ego.  Memorable scenes include:  - Gas-powered jet skis waiting underwater for our hero.  Hello!  Internal combustion engines need air!  - An oil tanker propelled by a bunch of people with oars.  Scotty, give us warp 10!  - Said oil tanker blown up using a conveniently placed and open vent.  Add to that bad acting, bad directing, bad editing and you have one of the worst films ever.  Almost makes you want to see Robin Hood or Dances With Cows."
"I just saw this movie yesterday for the first time.  I had always heard how much was spent on the making of this film.  All I have to say is...  AHHHHHHHHHHHHHH!!!!  What a horrible movie!!  The opening scene with Costner is probably one of the worst in film history.  I hated this film.  Looking at nothing but water is very boring.  The special effects were bland and even worse in the final shots over a blue screen.  (You know which shots!)  In the end, I really didn't care if Costner made it to land or not.  His character hates everybody and then magically changes in the next scene.  Too much was wasted on location than on actual special effects and acting.  Two thumbs down, way down."
"Dances With Wolves is my favorite movie.  Waterworld is my least favorite. You can now understand how troubled I must be, having been so betrayed by Mr. Costner.  I watched Waterworld with some friends in a theater.  We didn't know anything about it going in.  Coming out: &quot;So, what did you think?&quot; &quot;I didn't like it much, actually.&quot; &quot;Me either, it kind of sucked.  In fact, it sucked bigtime.&quot; &quot;I'll second that.  Could you believe how stupid it was?&quot; &quot;No kidding, some parts were so retarded I almost vomited!&quot; &quot;Dude, I feel shorter.  Does anyone else feel shorter?.&quot;   From that point on, all of us have had trouble sustaining relationships, keeping jobs, and passing classes.  I for one can only watch movies with the Olsen Twins now, I don't know why.  I'm dictating this review, because I forgot how to read and write.  I plan on filing a civil suit.  Please, if it is not too late, DO NOT SEE THIS MOVIE!  It will steal all your strength, and you will end up a useless invalid like me.  God help Mr. Costner and the rest of Hollywood so that they may never inflict this kind of tragedy upon civilization again.  Waterworld equals nerve gas.  If you really want the details, here I go.  The whole plot is so scientifically inconceivable that there is no way to take it seriously.  The inconsistencies are endless.  Apparently everthing is terribly scarce, except for cigarettes and jet-skis, which are a dime a dozen.  Yet any plant or sheet of paper is worth a man's life, so the story goes.  Script: STINKS!  Acting: STINKS!  Set: STINKS!  Dennis Hopper's acting awards should be taken away for this.  Kevin Costner's name should be forever removed from &quot;Dances.&quot;  The only reason this movie deserves a &quot;1&quot; is Jeanne Tripplehorn.  She makes me triple-horny, but watch &quot;The Firm&quot; to see her.  I swear, I'm going to end up in a group home if I keep thinking about this, but please, as my final request, don't let them do to you what they've done to me!"
"This movie could have been much better if it didn&#x27;t have such a political slant to it. What is Costners&#x27; problem with Christianity? Every movie he makes has evil people with Christian names or ideals. I certainly understand trying to make a point with this, but Costner is so politically driven by his own out-of-touch ideology, that it gets in the way of making movies that we can all enjoy. Yeah, I liked Dances with Wolves. But Costners ego was sent into the stratosphere due to its success and hasn&#x27;t made a decent movie since. Problem with this movie is that it was made during the height of the global warming scare that has been largely de- bunked and most reasonable people didn&#x27;t buy most of the scare anyhow. If you paid to see this movie than I feel for you. If you haven&#x27;t seen it, don&#x27;t worry, you didn&#x27;t miss anything."
"Everyone ought to know by now that &quot;Waterworld&quot; was just another big, loud, obnoxious Hollywood clich&eacute; film. If anything, Dennis Hopper's villain Deacon was the really neat character in the movie - he had some great lines, and that fake eye was funny. But otherwise, it was just a precursor to Kevin Costner's next worthless epic &quot;The Postman&quot;.  Now the movie's good part: it was Jack Black's debut. He played the guy in the airplane. One has to wonder how it could be that through such a ridiculous movie such a neat career began. But we all had to start somewhere. So it's only because of Jack Black's presence - plus Dennis Hopper's characterization - that I gave this movie 2/10 and not 1/10."
"Quite simply the worst film I have ever seen... and I&#39;ve seen a few stinkers in my time. More plot holes than a Swiss cheese. Patronising throughout, clich&eacute;-ridden, grossly insulting to the intelligence. This Costner ego-trip deservedly sank without trace to become the most disastrous financial failure in the history of movies to date. Confirmed my suspicions at the time that Costner was a vastly over-rated actor with an ego the size of Colorado. If you&#39;ve never seen this turkey, do yourself a big favour and continue in your blessed state of being. Makes my skin crawl and my throat dry just thinking about how truly awful it is. Only wish I could have given it a -10 rating."
"You're all right. This isn't the worse film ever made. But it certainly ranks, and I DO mean &quot;rank&quot;, with some of the worst ever made. This is just another example of Kostner going &quot;Chaplinesque&quot; is his feeble attempt to display his lack luster acting ability. The man reads his lines like an automaton and has about as much screen persona as Gumby. And my apologies to that &quot;little green slab of clay&quot;. The whole premise is hogwash. Something like Ed Wood might have concocted during one of his pot induced daydreams or something. Great film? Great actor? OK, answer me this: so what's Kostner been doing lately? Don't see or hear much about him anymore. Or is he locked up somewhere cooking up yet another &quot;epic&quot; of C.B. de Mille proportions? Locked up, now that's an idea. He should be locked up for doing a terrible impersonation of someone with talent. Schlock all the way with this one!"
"Ok, there are bad movies that know they are bad and end up pretty  decent. Then there is Waterworld. This movie is bad because it  tries to be good but fails in all acount.   First, the plot. If you have seen Road Warrior, you saw this movie.  The same plot, the only differance was Road Warrior was new and  fresh at the time of it's release and MUCH better.  Second, the &quot;acting&quot;. Costner acts like he is made of wood.  Hooper is so over the top, it is annoying. The rest of the cast is  well, either the sterotypical &quot;half crazy evil thug&quot; or &quot;I'm innocent  helpless target of the thugs&quot;.   Third, the set and stage. It is terrible. How much rusted metal and  tattered clothes do we have to look at/  Fourth the plot and story. Where did they get all the jet skies? How  did they keep them running? Where do they get fresh water? etc?  Now, i like an action movie as well as anyone, the Road Warrior for  example. But this movie tries to take itself serious and is nothing  more than a formulistic story with bad acting. Sink the movie and  watch Road Warrior instead."
"I just don&#39;t know... there&#39;s people here giving this movie 10 stars out of 10. I mean come on. Besides being totally clueless, it&#39;s actually devastating for the credibility of the IMDb ranking system.  Sure, there&#39;s hardly any need for badmouthing this movie anymore, and frankly it&#39;s too silly to even hate. It&#39;s mildly amusing and a perfect no-brainer for that pizza/hangover-day, where anything activating more than two neurons is too complicated. It&#39;s a harmless turkey. It&#39;s entertainment. But it&#39;s NOT good film-making. It&#39;s a waste of money and time, from the set to the rented DVD. Wasting time can be wonderful sometimes, but there&#39;s nothing in or about this movie that calls for anything more than 2 stars. Tops. Take the ranking seriously, please."
"I understand the entertainment value to this movie, and i did enjoy it when i first saw it around 10 years old, but c'mon, this movie was terrible. And i mean terrible. No redemption. Nothing. Costner was bad, the whole cast was bad, the storyline was terrible and drawn out; the only imaginable hint of good sense that i saw the director, writer, producers make was casting Dennis Hopper in. I think this was a wise choice, as he fits the bad guy role perfectly, and is pretty amusing to watch, even with the crappy lines he's given. Good actors sometimes can save the show, like Pacino in the devils advocate for one. Other then that, the movie drowned in its own mediocrity along with the rest of their watery world. 1/10, for the sake of Hopper."
"I never believed how many people I know could have hated a movie.  I was always scared to rent it or preempt any other programming I would normally watch to see Waterworld.  However, one night when I came home late and was awake due to insomnia, I saw it on the satellite and figured I'd give the movie a shot.  Wow!, what a terrible attempt to make a modern day epic.  I wasn't that the plot was poor or even the character development.  But the ending was terrible.  I felt like I had flushed precious moments of my life down the toilet.  If you are in the least bit curious about the move or feel like giving Kevin Costner a shot because you loved him in Field of Dreams, forego that option and save yourself from frustration."
All I really need is ONE word to review this film. But IMDB rules mandate a minimum number of lines in order to be printed. So excuse me while I get my dictionary...  Okay...here it is...s**t-verb. obscene 1)to defecate...noun 1)excrement  2) foolishness or nonsense  I trust that I've been of some minor assistance to you good folks in assessing your choices at Blockbuster this evening.
"With movies like The Shawshank Redemption out there languishing on the Money Tree, it is obscene that this horrible movie can make any more than $10 mill.  It's awful on so many levels, from the weak Mad Max 2 rip off script to the action scenes - especially that crocoshark thing.  Dreadful."
"After watching this movie, I just couldn&#39;t stop talking about it. Mind you, not in the sense that someone can&#39;t stop talking about a great book or show, but more along the line of how someone can&#39;t stop talking about their colonoscopy during a diner conversation. In other words, after seeing this you can&#39;t help but try and remove the stain it left on your very soul by vomiting out the experience onto others.  This movie entered with the tag line of being &quot;written by two of the six writers of &#39;Scary Movie&#39;!&quot; What they forgot to mention is that the two who wrote it were only responsible for writing the credits and all the jokes deleted for the sake of not causing mass suicide. Put more delicately, this movie almost makes Pootie Tang look Oscar worthy, which ironically enough was made fun of in the last Scary Movie for being horrid. Coincidence? Yeah, not even some sort of Karma dealing fiend would wish this movie upon the world.  &quot;So,&quot; you ask, &quot;What makes it so bad?&quot; I bet your thinking that all of the funny stuff was in the previews, right? No, actually there was no funny content in the previews at all, it just seemed that way when taken out of the context of the movie. Much the same way &quot;Hogan&#39;s Heroes&quot; was funny to people who weren&#39;t in Auschwitz during the Holocaust, the previews are funny to those who haven&#39;t seen the movie. When you actually see the movie, you start to ask, &quot;Why was that funny in the preview?&quot; The answer: You can see pretty flowers if you ignore the fact that they are growing from the corpse of a man who died during a freak green house accident.  Do yourself a favor, rent a History channel documentary on the history of documentaries and hit yourself in the head with a hammer. It&#39;ll be twice as funny, make three times more sense, and be only a fifth as painful."
"...but rather just a list of movies that the filmmakers wanted to parody, strung together by the weakest plot in film history and a lot of unfunny jokes.  You would think that the team responsible for the mess of a movie that was Date Movie would at least have learned something from their last film to help them avoid the same mistakes, but they didn&#39;t.   It would appear they spent more time making parodies as visually accurate as they could and spent almost no time trying to make the film entertaining. Some of the parodies seem completely out of place and don&#39;t even fit into what little plot there is.  I couldn&#39;t recommend this film to anyone, not even those I hated."
"Seriously people, i wasn&#39;t expecting much from this and i didn&#39;t get much. I at least expected a few laughs from it but i never got it. I think they let five year olds write the script for this crap. Very, very clich&eacute; spoof film, you could tell what was coming the whole way through (with a few stupid exceptions). They seriously need to stop spoof movies, i thought you couldn&#39;t get any worse than Scary Movie 4 but i was wrong. Writing a spoof takes no talent what so ever, just copy everyones ideas and &quot;try&quot; to make them funny. Now i could go on all day about how bad this movie is but I&#39;m afraid i must go, everyone do yourself a favour, do not see this rubbish."
"Some movies are funny, some are not. This movie may be funny to you, if you liked Date Movie, since both films are pretty much the same in cast and script quality.  Epic Movie is a loosely strung together collection of slap-stick comedy sketches based on various epic movies (Pirates of the Caribbean, Nacho Libre, Chronicles of Narnia, X-Men, Superman, etc...) so it&#39;s probably helpful if you have seen a few of the epics this movie takes off at, to understand the jokes used. (If you&#39;ve seen the clips during MTV video awards, you get the idea on the kind of jokes I&#39;m referring to). Epic Movie tries to cash in on the Scary Movie, Date Movie, &quot;Movie&quot; Movie franchise, but doesn&#39;t measure up to the originality shown in the Scary Movie series.  It doesn&#39;t take a genius to recommend that you save your box-office ticket money, and if you&#39;re interested, wait for the DVD, since this isn&#39;t an essential big screen movie."
"Epic Movie (2007) is total crap, no beating around the bush here, it was so bad it actually angered me that i paid to view this turkey and i wanted a refund, i felt cheated, the only reason i didn&#39;t cause a fuss at the cinema was the fact that something very funny happened...... a singing chant started in the audience (of about 12 people), and it went something like this, why are we watching, why are we watching, why are we watchinggggg this piece of CRAP!!!! I didn&#39;t have a clue what was going on, the &#39;script&#39; was idiotic, the actors were totally lame and annoying and the jokes were pathetic and UNFUNNY, how this ever made it to the silver screen i&#39;ll never know.  I advise anyone who&#39;s thinking of going to see this piece of JUNK, to stay well clear and save their money, thank you and GOODNIGHT! 0/10"
"Alright, it wasn&#39;t that bad, but it was close. Sure the Scary Movie series as well as Date Movie were stupid and juvenile, but this is dumber than all the rest. There were a few chuckles, but overall it was mostly me groaning. Nearly every joke was tired and lame. They gave away all the &quot;good&quot; jokes in the trailer. Why Fred Willard and Jennifer Coolidge would be in this I have no idea. But Crispin Glover? The oddball actor who was so great in films like Back to the Future, River&#39;s Edge What&#39;s Eating Gilbert Grape and more? Yeah that&#39;s him all right, as Willy Wonka dancing around to crappy songs. So maybe my title was accurate."
"I wasn&#39;t expecting much when I paid for my ticket to see this film, however this was the first time I actually considered leaving the theatre in the middle of a film because it was so bad.  The main issue about this film is originality. This movie is merely a re-shoot of all the films it parodies with different actors. There is no originality in the script, the writers seemed to just bundle a whole heap of scripts of the movies they were parodying together and added childish slapstick bits here and there along with repetitive MTV references that never varied. This made the film boring.  The main parody of the film is The Lion the Witch and the Wardrobe. Those who have seen the film want to see a clever parody not to see every scene in the film re-enacted by terrible actors. If the movie had been any longer than 90 minutes I swear I could have shot myself.  The film also recycles old jokes used in other terrible Friedman and Seltzerparodies. For example, Peter, Edward, Susan and Lucy are meant to be siblings and have the same parents yet are portrayed as a mix of black and white actors. This joke was used in the abysmal Date Movie, as the biological family consisted of a black father, Indian mother,and white and Chinese daughters. This joke was not funny in either of the films.  Not Only does the film recycle old jokes from previous parodies but also recycles jokes within the movie, Jayma Mays kicking the beaver wasn&#39;t funny the first time, so why do it again.  I just hope Friedman and Seltzer run out of genres to make films about.  The film does nothing but expand on the trailer, I recommend that if you want to see the film, watch the trailer and save the money you would&#39;ve spent on the movie ticket."
"This movie was really really bad. Forgive the pun, but it was epically bad. I went to the movie to fill time between some business I was conducting in New York and my flight that was leaving at 7pm.. I had several hours to kill.  There are no good scenes in this movie. I think I laughed at one joke within the first 5 or 10 minutes. The plot (if you could actually say there was one) was so stupid that it borders on the criminal. Anyone (actor, writer, director, or producer) should be jailed for 1 year for participating in the production of this film.  I would provide spoilers for this movie, but that would mean there is something worth spoiling.  I actually felt embarrassed for the actors. I had to leave after 30 minutes. For the first 20 minutes I thought to myself.. &quot;this just can&#39;t be.. a movie that looks like it was filmed using one camera in a decorated high school auditorium&quot;.. &quot;there&#39;s got to be a joke somewhere&quot;.. but alas, at the 30th minute, I could no longer justify wasting my life. The movie just never happened.  I want my $11.00 back Hollywood! Stop defrauding the public!!"
"In fact, counting holes in the ceiling would be healthier for your brain cells than this. The ceiling&#39;s holes would show more creativity and humor than the script of this film, and they would act better than the people in it, too. I&#39;d compare this thing to the foul smell of a rotten egg, but it&#39;s worse than that. The talentless Friedberg &amp; Seltzer are back from their Date Movie debacle with more trashy, unfunny &quot;spoofs&quot;. For example, a bullet bounced off of Superman&#39;s eye in his movie; now, the bullet pokes his eye out. Gee is that original and hilarious or what? Not a single joke works, and the only surprise of this movie is that these two hacks keep getting funding to produce flop after flop.   This is just so painfully bad. If you ever find a lost DVD of this movie somewhere, leave it there. It&#39;s not worth the effort to pick it up."
"It&#39;s not enough that we, the movie going public, are forced to put up with half of the crappy films &quot;Epic Movie&quot; attempts to parody, but we&#39;re also forced to contend with &quot;Epic Movie&quot; itself. In regards to this film, and all others like it, I find myself scratching my head and begging the question: &quot;How in the Hell did this movie ever get made?&quot; While I&#39;ve yet to receive any official response from the filmmakers behind this atrocity, I have come up with my own theory...  Hollywood hates us. Wait, scratch that; Hollywood doesn&#39;t just hate us; they think we&#39;re stupid, insignificant creatures of habit, too. That we&#39;re nothing but a bunch of mindless apes willing to throw our hard-earned bananas down on any old piece of crap they manage to squeeze out that week. And it saddens me to acknowledge that to a large degree, they&#39;re right. We do throw our bananas down on just any old thing, as proved by &quot;Epic Movie&quot; being number one at the big B.O. opening weekend. How could we be so stupid as to fall for a film boasting a lame concept written by a bunch of comedic hacks who think &quot;I&#39;m Rick James B***h!&quot; jokes are still relevant--let alone funny? I feel sorry for people like Kal Penn, Fred Willard, Jennifer Coolidge, and Crispin Glover who seem to have become so jaded with their careers that they could confuse accepting this cinematic skidmark on their resume as something remotely resembling a good idea. Especially in Penn&#39;s case, as he&#39;s on the verge of shattering the Kumar image most people still associate with him.  &quot;Epic Movie&quot; is supposed to be a comedy, but there&#39;s nothing funny about it. Every joke falls flat due to either being poorly executed, uninspired, or just plain irrelevant. I&#39;m all for parodies, but this film is so unfunny; it&#39;s not even funny.  Oh, and next time--God forbid there is one--for &quot;Epic Movie II,&quot; why not try parodying truly epic movies? &quot;Spartacus&quot; or &quot;Citizen Kane&quot; or &quot;Battlefield Earth?&quot; At least try to follow your own stinking premise...for once."
"Save your money! Save your eyes and ears the indignity of watching or hearing this film. Any jokes they thought up were one-liners, which were promptly turned into entire scenes or musical numbers, thereby killing both ideas stone dead.  The sound cut out at the showing I saw. Strangely, this made the experience less appalling for about ten minutes as we didn&#39;t have to hear the awful dialogue - the audience were coming up with better jokes themselves.  The studio would be best advised to release a single DVD of this, and microwave it."
"Worst film EVER! I understand that this film is similar to Scary Movie, however Scary Movie has at least some funny parts, where as Epic Movie is just terrible. The acting is poor, no story line (...even though I knew that there was not going to be much of one), the script was shocking and the jokes, which the film all about, simply NOT FUNNY. I&#39;m not sure if my expectations are set too high after watching &quot;HOT FUZZ&quot; (which is amazing by the way) but it didn&#39;t make me laugh. For the first time ever I have tried to get my money back from the cinema and believe me I have seen some bad films but this took the biscuit. Please don&#39;t waste your money on this film and encourage more."
"I am a HUGE fan of spoof movies. Naked Gun series, Fatal Instinct, Wrongfully Accused, Scary Movie series, Date Movie, and Not Another Teen Movie are all movies I watch on a regular basis. According to the commercials, this was going to be another one to add to my collection.....WRONG!!!! I was so disgusted. I kept waiting for a payoff, something, anything. It was so flat, even the actors seemed embarrassed. Obviously the studio was planning on hyping the movie knowing that the first weekend is all the movie was going to have. Yes, there were a few (and I do mean a few) funny parts, but this entire movie could have been condensed into a MadTV skit that would have been just perfect. I literally fell asleep during the movie. Now, how many people do you know that fall asleep during a &quot;comedy&quot;? I absolutely will not be attending another movie from these guys until after the first few weekends. I know if you were like me you would have to go see it for yourself and make your own determination, but please, I beg you, do not see this movie, do not buy or rent the DVD. If we support garbage like this, they will continue to rush out these terrible movies hoping that dopes like me will rush out on opening day to see them. We need to send a message. I know they made the entire investment back the first weekend, but good god almighty."
"I will admit I didn&#x27;t see this until a couple of days ago, and I was really hesitant of seeing it, after reading a lot of negative reviews on the film, and after seeing the excrement that is Disaster Movie. And let me tell you, after seeing this travesty for myself, I can&#x27;t agree more with the negativity. While not quite as monstrous as Disaster Movie, Epic Movie(more like Epic Dud) is a truly terrible movie. There are absolutely no redeeming qualities here. The humour just isn&#x27;t funny. It is crude, vulgar, over-familiar and even contrived, and the constant flashing of breasts was way overdone. The acting was really amateur, Jennifer Coolidge and Carmen Electra get my vote as the worst actresses in the movie, and believe me that is not saying much. The Willy Wonka spoof was just as tired as the movie itself. And as a parody of films like Pirates of the Caribbean and chronicles of Narnia, it falls well short in terms of sophistication. The writing is unbelievably bad, the characters are annoying and the plot just isn&#x27;t there. The music was awful, and the pirate rap was torturously bad. I will say right now, that I don&#x27;t like any of the recent Friedberg-Seltzer movies, merely because not only do I feel that there is a complete lack of comedic talent in their films, but also their films come across as a complete waste of time. And just like Disaster Movie, I seriously was considering turning the film off 20 minutes in, that&#x27;s how painful I found it. All in all, probably not quite the worst movie ever, but along with movies like Home Alone 4, NeverEnding Story 3 and Freddy Got Fingered, it is close. A complete disaster of epic proportions, and one to avoid, even if you&#x27;re thinking of renting. I&#x27;m not trying to sound harsh, I am just trying to explain as much as I can what I feel about the movie. 1/10 Bethany Cox"
"Holy Crap, this movie , if you can call it a movie, because its running time is a awful 68 minutes , don&#39;t be fooled , this is a robbery of your money and time. I can&#39;t believe it debuted #1 at the U.S box office. Those people should be ban for life and stop making this so call COMEDIES.(Date movie was just as bad) First: the leading actors, wow, they are so bad its not even funny, you don&#39;t like then and they have not one comic bone in their bodies. Second: the spoofs are so badly made , and are thrown at you like a piece of &quot;pie&quot; at your face, and they say &quot;take it you morons, this is funny&quot;, well i think not. Third: you can&#39;t make fun of Jack Sparrow, he is possibly the greatest movie character of this decade, so spare me please. Don&#39;t watch it, and if your life depend it on it, then just kill your self!!!!!!!"
"When you hear the title Epic Movie and also hear that its a spoof, you automatically assume that it will be spoofing such movies as Lord of the Rings, Lawrence of Arabia, Gladiator, Kingdom of Heaven etc. In this respect when I first heard the title I will admit I was a tiny bit intrigued. And then the trailer was released, my respect for the movie and its concept went dramatically downhill from there until now I sit before you having seen a movie that really, really, really is the most excruciatingly example of poorness that you will ever find on the cinema this year! You see Epic Movie decides to spoof such movies as The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lione, the Witch and the Wardrobe, Snakes on a Plane, Charlie and the Chocolate Factory, Pirates of the Caribbean: Dead Mans Chest, Superman Returns, X-Men: The Last Stand, Borat, Nacho Libre and oh way too much more as well. I can accept movies taking the mickey out of other movies, admittedly I quite like the Scary Movie franchise, sure Scary Movie 4 was a bit of a letdown, but that movie at least has some inventive ideas around it. This movie didn&#39;t have one half decent or remotely funny idea at all. When you sit there wishing you were watching the real Nacho Libre when you&#39;re watching the Nacho Libre spoof on this you know there&#39;s something horribly wrong with the movie. This fails at everything, the idea is pathetic, the cast are pathetic, the jokes are pathetic, hell even the sets are pretty pathetic. And that&#39;s the key word for this movie, pathetic. Its like a hyperactive five year old jumping in front of you for the entire movie, its basically screaming at you for attention, and no matter how much you ignore it it just keeps coming back for more. Its a mesh of horrid jokes ranging from slightly (and emphasis on slightly as I didn&#39;t even smirk) funny, a beaver getting kicked, to pretty bad (a Mystique scene where a man wants her to become a fat woman), to excruciatingly awful (the horrible Kribs sequence) to just plane suicidally awful, the Punk&#39;d spoof. Epic Movie is neither epic, nor funny, its just a wretched thing that&#39;s wondered onto cinema screens and unfortunately the morons of our society have decided to lap it up, which undoubtedly means Epic Movie 2 is being wrote as we speak, god help us all! The major problems with Epic Movie fall into the fact it is not funny at all, ever, not even a teensy weensy bit amusing. And another fault is that it dares to take the mickey out of things that are funny in their original movies. Borat for example, now the mickey take here is ludicrous, and actually I&#39;m still baffled as to how Borat got into this movie at all. But sure enough a man trying to act like Borat shows up, imagine Borat but without a joke and that&#39;s what he&#39;s like here, just simply walking on for the hell of it. The movie also decides to laugh at Johnny Depp&#39;s performance in Pirates 2, except here it seems like a man doing a poor Keith Richards impersonation more than anything else. The scenes where he waddles about singing an odd Pirate rap didn&#39;t make me laugh, they just made me sit there with my mouth hanging wide open as to why I am enduring this monstrosity. Then it tries laughing at the movie Click, I haven&#39;t seen Click so I can&#39;t really comment, but I still don&#39;t understand how they tried to take the mick out of it. They even repeated the slow down time to see a woman run joke in this movie, and it was lame here. But the movies ultimate, ultimate mistake is daring to try and laugh at Snakes on a Plane. It falls flat on its face, dramatically so. Whoever let these people try and write something funny about Snakes on a Plane needs to be forced to watch this movie back to back! I mean, what&#39;s even slightly amusing about a man trying to be like Samuel L Jackson and repeatedly saying &quot;I&#39;ve had it with these goddamn snakes on this goddamn plane.&quot; And saying it at least ten times in a row! My other big moan before I call it a day and try to recuperate from watching this thing called a movie, I will basically slag off the actors as much as possible. First up is Kal Penn as Edmund, now he&#39;s probably the least eye gougingly annoying of the lot, but by the time he&#39;s on screen with Jack Swallow (the annoying version of Jack Sparrow) you get sick of him. Adam Campbell is definitely the worst male in the movie, he is just ridiculous. He does a brief Superman parody that irritates more than anything else, and the fact his ludicrous English accent just sounds well ludicrous made me despise him even more. The two lead girls are equally as awful and both deserve to stand in a corner, and bow their heads in shame. But the two cast members I&#39;m still amazed that signed on are Crispin Glover and Jennifer Coolidge. Glover is in a disturbing but unfunny parody of Charlie and the Chocolate Factory, and Coolidge tries to scrape some laugh as the main villain, she fails dramatically. Why these two talented actors signed on is above me, and why they even read the script still amazes me as well.  Epic Movie is another front runner for worst movie of 2007. I thought Employee of the Month was bad, Employee of the Month looks like a masterpiece compared to this wretched movie. Avoid at all costs, no burn every cinema showing it down, it made stop the spreading of this plague like film."
"Yes, I knew it would be stupid. But stupid CAN be funny. I won&#39;t go into depth about just how stupid and unfunny it was; i don&#39;t want to restate the obvious. The snake is eating its own tail when it comes to these spoofs. However, there are some things I expected to get from this movie other than laughs:  1. Impersonations of at least &quot;Saturday Night Live&quot; quality (not that that&#39;s asking too much). -Um. No. This movie even made Darrell Hammond look like an amateur (and I think he&#39;s a pretty gifted comedian). What the heck was up with &#39;Samuel L. Jackson&#39;?   2. Topicality. The previews showed scenes borrowed from some pretty recent flicks. -Er... Punk&#39;d? Scarface? &#39;I just saved money on my car insurance&#39;? What, no Tom Cruise jumping on a couch?  3. Touchstone cameos by &#39;real&#39; celebrities, ala Dr. Phil in Scary Movie 4. -Nope. Nada. Zilch. Unless you count Crispin Glover doing a bad Johnny Depp doing a bad Johnny De... wait, see, I told you these spoofs were eating their tails.  4. Alright, I&#39;ll admit it, I expected LAUGHS. STUPID laughs, but SOMETHING!!!! Where there ANY laughs? -I did chuckle at some of Jayma Mays&#39; (Lucy) reactions. I&#39;d like to see her in another movie. Any other movie. Any OTHER movie.  Okay, I&#39;ve officially wasted enough of my life on this stupid, pointless, sub-Date Movie flick. I resolve never to speak of it again."
"What a disastrous piece of film.  If you are looking for something completely un-original, embarrassingly un-funny and down right cringe worthy, then this is the ideal movie for you.  I feel like a lesser person after watching it and as if nothing will ever make up for the what felt like an eternity I wasted on watching it.  It simply continues to deteriorate with every passing minute until I could do nothing but wish for the ending.  My advice would be to not waste any time or effort on watching this movie of epic disappointment, as I myself literally had to suppress the urge to physically destroy the DVD"
"this beats you over the head with super obvious jokes that you see coming a mile away, are not even funny and are not well done. This is like watching a bunch of skits for mad TV based on popular movies that didn&#39;t make it to TV because they were too lame, pathetic and downright painful to watch.  This is a movie by complete and utter idiots for complete and utter idiots. If you liked this film, please sterilize yourself before you spawn and make the world a much dumber place.  That this movie was ever financed is an insult to any good indie filmmaker.  PLOT: What if scary movie sucked so bad you couldn&#39;t watch it because all the jokes were like some kind of torture device for the human brain?? Add in a nod to willie wonka tying it all together and you have what could be the worst movie of the 21st century."
"Went to see this movie yesterday, not out of my own choice more because one of my friends decided it had to be a good way to fill an afternoon. She was wrong... Afterwards we all gathered outside the cinema to say what we thought. We tried to come up with ways that this movie could be worse...the best we came up with was that it could have been longer, the relatively short 1 hour 20 we sat through was quite enough, thank you very much. This was genuinely the first film in a while where I&#39;ve left the cinema without being able to come up with a single point that I thought merited compliments. The gags were weak and too much of the comedy seemed to be resting on the characters appearance and lack of intelligence. Certain jokes were used throughout the film, but cropped up too much for you to think it was clever."
"Normally I am a kind of guy who at least can stand even stupid comedies such as Stealing Harvard, the Scary Movie series, and even Date Movie but this has to be the worst film I have ever seen. The plot is ridiculously boring and there aren&#39;t even jokes. To me it seems like the writers did not even try to be funny here.  The movie begins with a parody of Willy Wonka, which sets the tone for the entire movie of badness. From there on, the movie consists of a bunch of people getting hit in the face over and over and over again. Most of the movie parodies The Chronicles of Narnia: The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe with stabs at The Da Vinci Code, Nacho Libre, Harry Potter, Click and some others. None of which are really that funny (There is a funny line about Harold and Kumar go to White Castle and that is probably the only funny &quot;joke&quot; in this movie.) The whole thing is rather pathetic on all ends. Even most of the cinematography was awful.  Please do not go see this movie, because it just encourages them to make more. Heck, any movie that this one parodies is much more worth seeing than this waste of film."
"This is literally one of the worst movies I have every seen. It&#39;s the first movie at least 10 years or more that I actually walked out half way through it. I usually stay to the end because I keep hoping that something will happen to make it worth it, but this time, I just couldn&#39;t do it.  The acting was horrible. It looks as if the script was written by the writers by simply going on a drinking binge then eating a lot and then throwing up, looking at the random chunks, and then trying to visualize letters that formed words, and then writing those imagined words down as the script. Then what you see on the screen, is the end result.  I love spoof movies. Naked Gun series was excellent. The Scary Movie series was pretty good as well. Scary Movie 1 was excellent; number 2 was good, 3 had a few good moments but wasn&#39;t that great, and 4 was about as good as number 2.  I do love a good spoof movie and had hight hopes for this movie. The trailer made it look great (as they are supposed to do) but in the end, it was simply worthless. I can&#39;t even believe it got the green light to be made. Another disappointment is that they had some good actors for what they were doing and they still couldn&#39;t pull it off. Jennifer Coolidge, the White Bitch, was great for that role. She is good in these types of roles but it didn&#39;t help. Really, she is the ONLY one that was any good in any of the roles.  If you haven&#39;t seen this movie yet, DON&#39;T GO!!! Don&#39;t even rent it on video, it&#39;s not even worth that. I know there are a few people that have given this a rating of 10. I would say that they were either joking, being sarcastic, or slept through the whole thing and didn&#39;t want to admit it.  Simply put, don&#39;t bother!!!!"
"Last night, my husband and I decided to go to the movies--for the first time in about two or three months, in fact. We chose to see Epic Movie, because we were in the mood to laugh.  The frustrating thing about this movie is that it *could* have been made to be really funny. What a waste for Jennifer Coolidge, Fred Willard, and others! The makers of this movie assumed we are idiots who needto be pounded over the head with the same jokes over and over again. I wanted to walk out, and now really wish I had.  All the way home, my husband apologized for taking me to that movie. I told him that we mutually agreed to go to this movie, and he didn&#39;t need to apologize, unless I apologized to him, too.  Normally, I don&#39;t read too many reviews before seeing a movie. How I wish I had for this one! Don&#39;t even waste your time if you have an opportunity to see this for free. You&#39;ll still feel like you wasted your money!"
"An epic is an epic. An awful movie is an awful movie. When I heard they were going to make an Epic Movie, I was like if it&#39;s called Epic Movie then it might be an epic. It&#39;s an epic horror but not an epic comedy. I timed it, it went for 60 minutes but after 15 minutes the theater was empty. I didn&#39;t leave. If I wanted to watch something that went for 60 minutes, I would&#39;ve watched 60 minutes. If I wanted to watch an Epic Movie. I would&#39;ve watched The Lord of the Rings. If I wanted to watch an awful movie I would&#39;ve watched Plan 9 From Outer Space.  I won&#39;t be surprised if Aaron Seltzer becomes the next Uwe Boll, as he also directed Date Movie. By next year, he will have a trophy case full of Razzies. So if they make another movie like this next year. It would also get in the bottom 100. 2007 is starting off bad but there are better movies coming out.   An epic is an epic. An awful movie is an awful movie."
"I saw this in the theater and absolutely loathed it. In retrospect, it...is still a horrible movie. I am still very shocked that I didn&#39;t walk out of it.  The previews can lead people like myself on - I&#39;m into any kind of humor, whether it be slapstick, vulgar, refined, immature, or just a cheesy movie. Epic Movie failed horribly at any of this, and didn&#39;t even make me smile. I think my favorite part, and the best parody was the Queen&#39;s MySpace, only because I have a strong dislike for that website, and it captured so many pages I&#39;ve seen far too well...  So anyway, it&#39;s a large disappointment, as the last Scary Movies/as Date Movie has been; looked funny from the outside, terrible when actually seen. The writers could have done better than to string poorly done, over-used, unfunny jokes together for a...SHORT film, may I call it! Fair enough if you&#39;re making a long movie, I can see it a little hard to make every joke good. But this wasn&#39;t even a long movie - and not even one joke was funny. Sheesh. Why didn&#39;t we trade our tickets.  The seconds you see in the commercial will be the only amusing parts, and is that really worth your five dollars? Go rent a movie or go see something else. Seriously. Sorry if this seemed like a rant, but you&#39;re better off."
"Well where to start? I was pretty excited when I entered the theater with a large cup of pop corn. The place was full, literally. Every seat was taken... Once the film started rolling, I understood what I was going to sit through. Crude humor that was only funny to children 11&lt;, primitive sex jokes, talentless and unclever spoofing... bleh, just bleh. Epic Movie is truly the most idiotic film since its &quot;brother from another mother&quot; Not Another Teen Movie and even there, the spoofs looks much more clever. I really can&#39;t imagine how much money the producers of this pile of garbage had to give the cinemas to show this. I wouldn&#39;t advise watching this even to the most immaturest of folk. Just don&#39;t waste that hour (yes, the movie is only an hour long) of your life on something like this. I&#39;d suggest watching T4XI or even Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles compared to this. It&#39;s not even worth a rental."
"You can see by the overall user comments what a steaming pile of manure this &#x27;movie&#x27; is. From the moment of David Carradine&#x27;s humiliation (his lowest ebb on screen for sure)in a skit on The Da Vinci Code trundles on to screen at the start, you know this will be a train wreck. In my long history of watching films, this is without doubt the worst thing I have witnessed on the big screen. I hear Disaster Movie was pretty awful but &#x27;Fool me once...&#x27; and all that, I dodged the bullet of watching it.  The whole mindnumbing experience is simply a series of pathetic spoofs of blockbusters, with the merest thread holding the weak storyline together. Basically, there is no point going into what little plot there is as you would need a death wish to watch it after the sound advice on this site. Of course, some of you will watch it to see if it is indeed as bad as people are saying. Trust me - it is. And it&#x27;s not funny in a &#x27;so bad it&#x27;s funny&#x27; kind of way. This is no Plan 9 From Outer Space! Oh deary me, no. This is a *ahem* &#x27;comedy&#x27; which , unless you are stoned out of your mind, drunk to the eyeballs AND under 10 years old, will sit stony faced throughout. In fact, you will likely sit quietly seething, grinding your teeth and clenching your fists.  The idiots responsible for this detritus should be imprisoned for crimes against humanity. As for the actors, it will be a stain on their careers for as long as they live, and sadly even longer. If you want more high brow laughs and entertainment, go and poke a dog turd with a stick."
"And this flick lacks even the tragic element of such a thing. I have tried to watch this straight through, and it just isn&#x27;t possible. This is that nadir of film-making: a motion picture that is so rotten that it can&#x27;t even appeal to your sense of humor by being bad.  &#x22;Robot Monster,&#x22; &#x22;Plan Nine from Outer Space,&#x22; and &#x22;The Giant Claw&#x22; are so bad as to be risible, but at least the people who made them did so with heart and they entertain. Not so the gang that threw-up this tripe on the screen.  There is a difference between dumb comedy and attempted comedy that is just plain stupid and badly made, cranked-out JUST to make a buck. They knew their target audience: the airheads among the teens, the ones who respond to almost everything with &#x22;Whut?&#x22;  So save your money. Don&#x27;t waste it on this trash. It doesn&#x27;t deserve your time, even as the filmmakers don&#x27;t deserve even a penny of your money."
"Words cannot describe this movie, but i am going to try anyway...  Its like all the terrible furniture adverts, every single horrible and painful nightmare, all the terrible reality TV shows and as many awful jokes all rolled into one pointless, tedious and brain cell destroying train wreck of a film!  Its like they have just watched scary movie 4 and said to themselves, &quot;how can we make this worse?&quot;. And its strange because i never possible thought that there could be a comedy film that could go any worse than scary movie 4 did, ill give them that, they have done the impossible.  What happened to the good old days of take-the-mick movies like scary movie 1 and 2 or even airplane or hot shots they where actually funny. I have to say that this film is awful, the plot is weak, the jokes aren&#39;t funny and every time something happens that should be funny, i full heartedly expect tumbleweed to start rolling by and the crickets to start chirping.   Its a terrible film and if anyone tells you otherwise, make sure you stay well away from them."
"Just no.  I don&#39;t know what tool approved this to get past the pre-production stage (I guessing some moron with the humour and culture of a twelve year old), but they should be hunted down and you know just like poke in the face really hard.  It was HORRIBLE. Not even funny, just stupid dick and fart jokes that don&#39;t even cut it as jokes.  Just don&#39;t waste your time, this spoof movies are just getting worse.  Save your money, don&#39;t buy it on DVD or watch it on pay per view or whatever, because it is bad.  I wish I could vote minus number out of ten."
"Epic Movie makes the otherwise dreadful Date Movie look like it has all the wit of a Marx brothers film. I choose to watch this, I will NOT dignify it by calling it a film as I don&#39;t want to sully the word, this thing out of morbid curiosity at just how bad a bottom 100 rated thing on IMDb could possibly be. I was not ready for this inept &#39;spoof&#39; film that is cringe-worthily unfunny The lame pansy ass shots at movies actually spells out what the spoof they&#39;re doing is from!!! So it&#39;s not only vastly unfunny, it also treats the audience like some severely mentally retarded sloths (which, I&#39;ll concede, is in likelihood the coveted demographic they&#39;re going after). EVERYone involved in this soul-sucking piece of rancid dog feces should not only be deeply deeply ashamed of themselves, but should actually be sentenced to do community service of some kind. I think it&#39;s current standing of 43rd worst thing of all time is actually way to optimistic, as it&#39;s not one of, but THE worst supposed comedy I&#39;ve EVER seen in my life. Trust me I&#39;ve seen a lot and suffered through many a bad film. But in all sincerity this thing is as painful an experience as having a gravel enema, while your eyes are held open by rusty priors forced to see grandma provide fellatio to a sickly dog who gets so exited his bowels go and he defecates in a baby sister&#39;s mouth which she gulps down with delight. No wait, this is worse MUCH MUCH worse. Now i&#39;m not a movie snob in the least. my tastes range from Shawshank redemption to Polyester. From Die Hard to The Toxic Avenger. I love spoof films like Airplane, Naked Gun, Kentucky Fried Movie and Scary Movie (the first one).But I sincerely do NOT want to meet anyone who even chuckled once at this abomination. It&#39;s utterly and supremely horrid in every single conceivable way, from the wanna-be Anna Farris, Jayma Mays to the proof that Kal Penn in Harold and Kumar was his highest achievement in life to the brain numbingly so called &#39;spoofs&#39;. David Carridine, do you need the money THIS badly? Carmen Elektra, what in the hell were they holding over your head?? must have been supremely embarrassing indeed as you were married to Rodman. Fred Willard, where the hell did your career go??? Poor poor Kevin &quot;Kids in the Hall&quot; McDonald how could you slum this badly?? Lastly (and i DO mean lastly) to Jason Friedberg &amp; Aaron Seltzer: How can you hate all of humanity with such a passion as to inflict these travesties on us. Every single film you&#39;ve done thus far, and likely in the future, is complete and utter sh*#. You&#39;ve totally bypassed other horrible incompetent film makers as Uwe Boll, and others that names escape me at the moment. You&#39;re both the worst.  My Grade: F"
"I had read everywhere that this movie was awful, complete c**p. Well I still watched it, I guess I had to see to believe, and while expecting a funny parody of recent films I somehow got an even WORSE film than what I was told it was.  Apparently the writers of this &quot;thing&quot; suddenly forgot what was actually funny and inserted a bunch of disgusting, unfunny, painful jokes that just induced vomit to the audience. But believe me, anyone who saw those film should get a medal, because to stand the whole picture, for 1 hour 33 minutes, you gotta have guts. Watching it is torture, as simple as that.  Probably the worst script ever, and the most stupid and lame acting in years are only some of the millions of flaws that invade Epic Movie and make it easily the worst comedy ever made. Arghhh... an insult to human intelligence and cinema... please don&#39;t watch it... I think you are better off renting The Cave actually... I can&#39;t believe I just said that..."
"Well to sum it up, the movie was a pile of crap and i wish that i would not have wasted my money on the pile of garbage. Everyone tell your friends to not ever see this movie it was painful and sad in a &#39;WOW! That really sucked&#39; kind of way. I really think that too many people are expecting too much from these movies. First came crappy Date Movie, then Scary Movie 4 now this. I wish people would quit while they are ahead. The only way we will ever see a good movie of this sort again is if the Wayans brothers come back and save us from the tyranny of evil movie makers. Hope this was useful in a &#39;Hey, that movie sucked!&#39; sort of way.  Yours Truly,   Kate"
"So, I went to see this movie after a couple of friends had said it was a pretty good movie. I have to say it was the worst movie ever. Not much offends my group of friends and every one of us were offended by the content of this &quot;film&quot; -I use the term &quot;film&quot; very loosely here.- decided that we didn&#39;t want to watch anymore of it so we walked out. We didn&#39;t get our money back be cause we kept hoping it&#39;d get better. It didn&#39;t. We&#39;re still trying to figure out how this movie was considered a PG-13 movie. I was disgusting. Needless to say, none of us will ever suggest to another person to see this movie. It was a waste of my time and my money. Some have said this movie was similar to the scary movies, at least the scary movies was actually funny."
"So - were only 4 months into 2007 and i think Epic Movie is already the worst film of the year. The plot line was stupid making parodies at box office smashes such as &#39;Harry Potter&#39; &#39;Narnia&#39; and &#39;Willie Wonka and the chocolate factory&#39; and it is not a patch on other parody films like any of the &#39;scary movies&#39; or &#39;shaun of the dead.&#39;  I walked into the cinema thinking it would be quite a good laugh but 20 minutes in i was ready to walk out - but my 11 year old sister wouldn&#39;t let me. I also felt there was a lot of wasted talent in the film. Jennifer Coolidge is a brilliant comic actress but her performance in Epic Movie was cringeingly bad. Overall the funniest bits of the film were in the trailer and only 4 months into 2007, i can safely say this is the worst film of the year!!"
"Why is this film classified as comedy? I&#39;m pretty sure a film should contain at least some humour to justifiably hold the classification.  Seriously, Schindlers List got more laughs out of me.  Also, an important note on satire; don&#39;t satire a mockumentary character. It really defeats the purpose and suggests you failed to grasp the joke of the original material. Which, if is the case, you&#39;ve no place rising above your station as a &#39;nobody&#39; to consider yourself worthy of composing a feature length satire.  I would have been less offended if the money used to make this film had been used to make cheap alternative to porridge out of ground up orphans.  1/4 of a star would be too generous. But I&#39;m not allowed to offer less than 1."
"jason friedberg and aaron seltzer continue to destroy the comedy film genre with god-awful &#x22;comedy&#x22; films they direct, this film is no exception.  I remember watching this tripe when I was on vacation in America, and this film is horrible, the humour isn&#x27;t even a little bit funny, the script is horribly written, and the characters are obnoxious. this was annoying, not funny, and very boring.  Jason and aaron really need to stop making films altogether, they suck and have no talent. that&#x27;s really all I have to say about this &#x22;film&#x22;, and don&#x27;t waste your money on epic movie, and pretend it doesn&#x27;t even exist."
"My Take: A one-joke movie? I never thought there were any jokes at all!   The tag-line of the posters of EPIC MOVIE (as well as its infamous predecessor DATE MOVIE) says that it was brought to us by 2 of the 6 writers of SCARY MOVIE. Why couldn&#x27;t they have picked the two good writers? Okay, finding two &#x27;good&#x27; writers in any of the SCARY MOVIE films need a little miracle to pull off, but why did it have to be Jason Friedberg and Aaron Seltzer? To make this question far more simple, hear this: Did the world really need a disaster that is DATE MOVIE?   Well, enough blaming it all on J&#x26;B. As long as this things are making money, this guys have a job. And believe me, this is the worst job you can ever land on a Hollywood affiliation. Exhibit A: EPIC MOVIE. After the &#x27;success&#x27; (money can do everything, you know?) of DATE MOVIE, J&#x26;A felt &#x22;Hey! People got sucked into that one, why not make another pile of crap... I mean movie?&#x22;. And so it is. This time, the choice of parody are big &#x27;event&#x27; blockbusters. Not sparing STAR WARS, the film also parodies scenes and story lines from THE CHRONICLES OF NARNIA, CHARLIE AND THE CHOCOLATE FACTORY, THE DA VINCI CODE, PIRATES OF THE CARIBBEAN 2, including lesser not-so-epic films as NACHO LIBRE, CLICK and BORAT. There are more, but it&#x27;s only a waste to list them all down here. Why is that? Of all the scenes it lifts and references from other movies, none of them really are funny.   J&#x26;B really have to know that, in making a movie parody, it&#x27;s not enough to simple get the scenes and re-paste them right here, they have to make them funny. And when I mean funny, I mean hilarious. Not gross, icky and poor excuse for a sex joke. But the real term of funny doesn&#x27;t seem to be on the J&#x26;A vocabulary. In fact, I bet if they even try to look it up, they&#x27;ll end up with the same old fiasco of EPIC MOVIE. Apparently, their taste of humor are far different from the audiences. Still, what baffles me more than this films being god-awful disasters, is the fact that these films actually make money. Seeing this film actually going somewhere after opening night is a sign of the Apocalypse. Has the standards for entertainment really have gone into this?   Looking at the bright side, I bet any of this films won&#x27;t see the light of day after many years. Someday, a guy runs up to you and asks &#x22;Hey! You remember that movie called EPIC MOVIE?&#x22;. And after answering with a &#x22;No&#x22;, the guy replies &#x22;Of course you don&#x27;t! I don&#x27;t either.&#x22; EPIC MOVIE isn&#x27;t the kind of movie that stands the test of time. In fact, any movie under the shadow of the infamous J&#x26;A will never see light in a matter of years. I&#x27;d like to make my testimony of hating this film a little longer, but I have a couple more J&#x26;A films coming soon, and I plan to save whatever speeches and adjectives I can think of right now for later. For now, I say don&#x27;t see EPIC MOVIE, and when I mean don&#x27;t see it, don&#x27;t wait for it even when it comes to TV. Unless if you, like me, haven&#x27;t seen a bad movie for a very long time, and really wanting to hate something real bad. Then, in that case, EPIC MOVIE is a movie for you.   Rating: 0 out of 5."
"I honestly was looking forward to this movie. I saw the commercials and I kept talking about it and getting excited to go see it. It was my goal to see it on opening night. My friends warned me that it would be stupid. I insisted that it would be hilarious (the commercials made it seem that way...). I dragged along my poor friend to see it with me on opening night. By the end of the movie, we were so horrified. We literally felt that about an hour of our life was ripped from our souls and left a gaping wound in the pit of our stomach...It was that bad!!!! We tried to joke about the movie...but we were so stricken with disbelief of how bad it actually was and we wanted to leave the theaters really badly. The beginning of the movie was pretty funny, but my expectations plummeted at the random rapping and sexual dance scenes. Throughout almost the whole movie, the audience was totally silent and by the end of it, you can hear people moaning on how they are thankful it&#39;s done and that they&#39;ll never see a movie like that in a very long time. Its too bad...I enjoyed the Scary Movies. Too bad this one was a failure beyond belief..."
i&#39;m never going to watch this movie again . when me and my friends went to see this movie we thought it was pg but when we saw it after 15 min we said lets go out of here this movie from the beginning to end its violence and sexual i think that first of all they should bring their children to watch the movie and see that the move should be rated r and please don&#39;t let your children to watch a movie like this its terrible because then they learn it and they will say it somewhere and its not mature and any one else say that this move is great then bring a 10 yr old and ask them how was the movie should it be rated pg?never watch this movie again because the people that like this movie they are mature if u don&#39;t believe me go watch this movie only for 15 min.
"A total waste of my life that I will never have back. A visit to a dentist or open heart surgery without drugs is more fun than this movie. I regret ever even thinking of seeing this movie and figure anyone who does like it should be shot and buried. I like most comedies and have no problem with tasteless humor, but this movie just wasn&#39;t funny. It was just tasteless and boring. Utter garbage that seemed to take hours to play out. I kept waiting for something funny to happen, but it never did. Possibly the worst movie I have ever seen. If I could get all the writers and director of this heap of turds on film, I&#39;d have them tortured and killed. This would at least be a little bit funny, unlike this movie."
This movie was just horrible! There was hardly anything funny in it at all and the plots had more major holes in it than swiss cheese.  This movie was also too short and the only somewhat funny bits were in the trailer itself.  Don&#39;t waste your time and money on this rubbish. You&#39;ll get more laughs and entertainment out of beating yourself in the head with a sledgehammer while watching paint dry.  Thank God that I didn&#39;t actually pay to watch this filth. It only cost me a ticket from iCoke and and hour and a half of my life wasted.  This will go down as the worst movie in history.
"OK, this is a short one. Epic movie is simply one of the worst movies i&#39;ve ever seen, at least in the last 10 years (i&#39;m 27), i consider myself to have a good sense of humor and i&#39;ve seen movies like HotShots with Charlie Sheen which make the same kind of parody but much more effectively and let&#39;s not talk about the story because... there isn&#39;t one! If you have seen most of the movies that appear parodied there maybe you may smile a couple of times, but if you don&#39;t you just sit down and wait for a bunch of bad actors perform a very poor script.  ...awful.  Peace."
"Why do people still go and waste there money on these movies? I just don&#39;t understand!Its full of the same stupid send-ups as all the others,blasting through some movies as though there was no-where left to go,then dragging out others for much the same reason.It&#39;s just garbage rolled into a movie.Stop paying to see these things (for want of a better word).The police academy movies were bad enough(no idea how they squeezed out ten or so movies)but at least they boast original content,if you&#39;ve seen any of the movies this so called epic movie has sent up you will be totally disappointed,it lacks humor period.An absolute joke.It should have been called the never ending saga,great for getting in some shut eye though."
"Splice together scary movie, a cat and a bag of testicles and resultant is this movie, and a heck-load of excess crap. There&#39;s an idea that this film is going to be popular -- it&#39;s right. YouTube users will just watch this because they want to see themselves acting like complete idiots.  This film was well filmed, just absolutely dreadfully scripted. I watched it thinking it might be quite funny; i was mistaken. The script-writer must have hung himself years ago, because this was just an abomination.  Thanks for a waste of 2 hours, and for putting wear and tear on my neuronal structure."
"As far as I&#39;m concerned this movie should be rated R. It has way too much sexual suggestiveness and swear words to be PG-13. I took my kids ages 13, 9, and 7 and we could not believe our ears and eyes. I have taken the kids to many PG-13 movies that were totally appropriate. This movie was totally garbage and whoever made it should be ashamed of themselves. Hollywood is turning out some real crap these days. There are enough problems in our world today. Why don&#39;t these producers and directors take some responsibility and stop turning out this kind of crap. Too many kids are learning bad behavior and language from today&#39;s stupid movies....what a waste of $50."
"So far this year i have seen movies each week as i find being in a new relationship, movies are a big part of life , last weekend it was a choice of some crazy lady who writes books on rabbits, or epic movie. And because of my love for spoof movies, hot shots, etc. i Convinced my crew, to see epic movie. I am now the most hated man in Australia, and have lost the pants wearing position in my relationship with my missus. The movie was shat, i seriously cannot believe that has made it onto film. The moral, go see anything else even if its foreign. I disliked it so much i had to register for this site to vote 1 (awful) for it.  One good thing (Stiffler&#39;s mom)"
"I don&#39;t think i laughed even once. This movie was plain retarded (not in a funny way.) I am a fan of dumb, low-brow, stupid movies, but this didn&#39;t even make me crack a smile. The best part of the movie was the trailer for Reno 911: Miami. Please don&#39;t support this trash. My friends and I walked out of the theater wondering how this movie actually got made. What movie executive could have thought this was funny. It&#39;s obviously a big-budget movie with expensive sets and effects. It was number 1 over the weekend which just proves how many idiots there are out there. There were even a few funny actors in this, IE Fred Willard, even he couldn&#39;t save this awful, terrible movie."
"So I came in knowing this was going to be totally out of left field and so far fetched in it&#39;s deliverance of parodies of other films...but my lord! I walked out about 50 minutes into it...after my wife woke me up...she claims I fell asleep for 10 minutes. I would have felt bad for other patrons...but other than my party of 9...there were no other film viewers. It was truly a waste of my money and time. I&#39;ll never get it back. Admittedly, the only real highlight for me was Crispin Glover&#39;s rendition of Willy Wonka while dancing to &quot;Fergilicious&quot;. Please understand that this is my opinion and I&#39;m sure some day when I&#39;m belligerently drunk off my arse and I have 90 minutes of my life to waste, I just may give this movie a second chance. Okay, that&#39;s a lie, I probably won&#39;t. If you do insist on seeing this movie, please make sure to inhale a generous amount of hashish and perhaps a drop of acid or two. This mix should make the movie bearable."
"This was probably one of the worse movies I&#39;ve seen. My daughter and I started out not like it, thought we&#39;d wait it out to see if it improved, but ended up leaving. I have never done that to a movie. Their was no laughter in the crowd there...only silence. Some of it was just tacky, even for slapstick comedy. Tried to rely too much on &quot;shock&quot; instead of really relating to the movie being made fun of.  Was a wasted of time and money. Nothing funny about it in my opinion. I love dumb, funny movie, but his one fell short. It appeared the writers were having a hard time coming up with any substance to their punch lines. This left their attempts at sattire flat."
"When I saw the trailer I thought I would be constantly laughing while seeing this movie.NOT EVEN CLOSE.The humor this movie brings is outrageously awful.I can&#39;t believe I had the patience to watch it until the end.When I heard that two of the writers where from the Scary Movie writers staff I was actually excited to see this crap.  DO NOT PAY TO SEE THIS MOVIE I BEG OF YOU. If the form &quot;the worstest&quot; existed,Epic Movie would definitely fit into that category.I actually lost my respect towards the writers of Scary Movie. DO NOT LET YOURSELF FOOLED BY THE TRAILER.Those are the only funny scenes in the movie.If you think this movie will make you laugh until you cry you are making a huge mistake. VERY DISAPPOINTING!!!!!!!!"
"...because it saved me the price of an entrance ticket. I&#39;m not entirely entitled posting here because I turned it of after about half an hour. Just for saving my brains of getting any more damaged. Besides that, when I look out of my window, I see a HUGE wall which was more interesting.  After I deleted this movie, I got an email from my own PC. It was something like &quot;If you ever download sh*t like that again, I&#39;ll blow myself up&quot;  I really want to tell something more, but the only thing is the warning that this movie is more damaging for you then smoking. Sadly, the rating does not go below 1."
"The movie was very bad, it poked fun at religion, several sexual oriented and suggestive scenes. I do not recommend for any child to watch this movie the parents will be left to explain a lot to the children and the child will be exposed to a lot of suggestive, ignorant content. I do not recommend a person waste their money on this. I was expecting this movie to be hysterical and fun to see, but instead I was disappointed and bored. I only laughed at a few parts and I left the movie disappointed. The vulgar language was annoying and I heard other people who went to see the movie discuss how disappointed they were as well. I do not recommend this movie, it was a disappointment and not funny at all just boring, stupid and offensive. Fairwarning, I am going to tell you a spoiler so don&#39;t read beyond this point...  The movie is basically The Chronicles of Narnia just redone to incorporate other movies such as the x-men, Harry Potter, Pirates of the Carebbean, the Divinchi Code and more. This was not funny and a complete disappointment and focused on sex and made fun of religion."
"The fact that this horrid piece of trash got the green light is definitely a sign of the apocalypse. I&#39;m a big fan of the parody, as a genre. We&#39;ve seen great examples of it in films like &quot;Airplane&quot; and &quot;Kentucky Fried Movie.&quot; Fast forward about twenty-five years later and what do we have? &quot;Epic Movie.&quot; How anyone can laugh at something this juvenile is completely foreign to me. First of all, it&#39;s supposed to be a parody of &quot;epic movies,&quot; and almost no epic movies are parodied! Do you consider &quot;Snakes on a Plane&quot; to be an epic movie? Do you consider &quot;Nacho Libre&quot; to be an epic movie? And many of the films being made fun of aren&#39;t that great in the first place. The first rule of the parody genre is to poke fun at &quot;good movies&quot;! You don&#39;t insult bad movies, because a bad movie is an insult within itself! Duh! The filmmakers didn&#39;t even make honest attempts to make each gag funny. In the parody of &quot;Snakes,&quot; an amateurish black actor plays Samuel L. Jackson and repeatedly yells out &quot;I&#39;m tired of these G.D. snakes on the G.D. plane!&quot; Obviously, he didn&#39;t say &quot;G.D.,&quot; but the point is in the real movie he says, &quot;I&#39;m tired of these motherf**kin&#39; snakes on the motherf**kin&#39; plane!&quot; But of course, that can&#39;t happen because ooooh, then the film will be slapped with an R-rating. The idea of people under the age of 17 not being permitted to see this trash is positively frightening to the studio. If you ask me, no one with an I.Q. OVER 17 should be permitted to see this movie. What I&#39;m basically saying is the joke doesn&#39;t work because he&#39;s not even saying the same line! The joke would&#39;ve worked if, first of all, the directors hired a much better actor who does a much better Sam Jackon impersonation, and second of all, used the line that was in the original movie. Because there has to be a &quot;truth&quot; to every joke! Speaking of bad actors, the cast consists primarily of amateurs. The directors probably could&#39;ve snagged better actors from a high school play. There are some exceptions like Kal Penn, Tony Cox, and Fred Willard (who has the one funny scene in the movie), but obviously they&#39;re not given much to work with. I assumed at first it was Crispin Glover that played Willy Wonka in the parody of &quot;Charlie and the Chocolate Factory,&quot; but then I said to myself, &quot;No! Crispin does a movie, like, once a decade.&quot; Sure enough, it was him. Say what you want about Crispin&#39;s real life persona, but he usually has much better taste in films (i.e.: &quot;Back to the Future&quot; or &quot;River&#39;s Edge&quot;). He must&#39;ve been horribly desperate for a paycheck when he volunteered to participate in this amateur hour. Hector Jimenez, the actor who played Jack Black&#39;s friend in &quot;Nacho Libre,&quot; also has a role in the film. It makes me glad that his character said few lines in &quot;NL.&quot; Obviously, English is not Hector&#39;s first language, and he butchers every line of dialogue with his strained delivery. I always say it&#39;s important when you do comedy to hire actors who speak English as a first language. If that sounds racist, I&#39;m sorry, but unless you&#39;re playing a Harpo-Marx-type role, comedy is all about inflection. Watch the movie &quot;Chasing Papi&quot; if you want to see a good example of an American comedy being executed badly by actors who don&#39;t speak the language very well.  About the only incentive to watching &quot;Epic Movie&quot; is getting the chance to see Carmen Electra prance around half-naked throughout most of the flick. But even that welcome eventually gets worn out, since we later get &quot;treated&quot; to a scene where Carmen transforms into a fat woman with a unibrow. What is this trend with making Carmen do something horribly unappealing in every comedy she does? In &quot;Scary Movie&quot; there&#39;s a scene where she farts. In &quot;Scary Movie 4&quot; there&#39;s a scene where she takes a gigantic dump. Is this a conspiracy to stop men from fantasizing about Carmen? Sheesh! If crude, brainless gags about puking and peeing is your cup of tea, then &quot;Epic Movie&quot; may be the film for you. But I do suggest if you do enjoy it...please schedule an appointment with a therapist. Or make an appointment for a cat scan, at least."
"right, well. I work in a cinema and we get staff screenings of films. So I thought to all who are wanting to see it ( Australians, unless it&#39;s still not released else-where) To do something constructive with the time you would spend with this film. I just got home from it and I can safely say it&#39;s one of the worst films I&#39;ve EVER seen, if not THE worst.  The good. Slightly funny references to MTV &amp; Pop culture.   The bad. It&#39;s a disgrace to the classic and or brilliant films we all enjoy. Boring Predictable, as a parody film usually is. un-original silly the humor is just pointless use of &#39;slap-stick&#39; , lame sexual humor, and manipulating other films in a predictable way. A Waste of time. The Villon / &#39;bady&#39; of the film&#39;s name is the white bitch of Gnarnia, originating from the white witch of Narnia. Congrats guys, you can think of words that rhyme! It&#39;s not even bad enough to laugh at. In comparison to another bad film, Snakes on a plane, was humorous as it was so poorly done. This however is just lame.   Rating 1/10 ( There was no 0 option)"
"I&#x27;m going to try to find words to describe how Awful this film is. I have not seen a worse movie in my lifetime!! Not a single scene was funny in it!! It&#x27;s incredible how a &#x22;comedy&#x22; movie literally goes through every scene and not a 1 is funny! I have no respect for someone who thinks this junk is funny. I mean seriously is this the best filmmakers got? Tell me please this isn&#x27;t what&#x27;s considered comedy nowadays. Cus if it is then the film industry is in serious trouble!! Just a sad sad attempt to TRY to make human beings laugh. What we have here is a mind numbingly awful, crass, crude, ATTEMPT at comedy!! I wasted my time by turning the TV on Comedy Central to watch this 1 night! I was amazed at just how stupid and awful it actually was!! And the acting oh please just forget it!! There really is no redeeming value in this film. It&#x27;s not in the Least bit funny, there is no one attractive in it, and I really didn&#x27;t care about anyone in it! So please DO NOT watch the worst movie of ALL time, no really it&#x27;s the worst movie EVER MADE!!!"
"This is probably the worst movie I&#x27;ve ever seen, The director does not know talent, or writing because this movie lacks both. The Harry Potter mocking was unbelievably pathetic. The Click remote scene was incredibly stupid. There was no structure in this movie what so ever. Kal Penn and Jennifer Coolidge should be embarrassed that they decided to star in this abomination.   To sum up the worst part, I hated the Borat and Jack Sparrow parody, this movie is an insult to any other movie that ever existed. The other movies, Date Movie, Meet the Spartans, Vampires Suck, and Disaster Movie were just as bad as this pathetic excuse for a movie.   I can&#x27;t vote below a 1! If I could it would be 0/10!"
"I had the unfortunate mistake to see this film when it originally came out. Oh my god, was it awful! At the time I saw the trailer, I wanted to see it but had no idea that this was created by two talentless hacks. I did kinda look funny in the trailer but again at the time I had no idea how bad this would turn out and the worst part about this is they made even more of these godawful parodies and I even made the same mistake again and even saw Meet The Spartans. While that film was slightly better, it was still pretty damn awful. If I had a time machine I&#x27;d travel back to 2007 and warn my 18 year old self not to see this movie and that it is awful and downright unfunny and that he could spend his $5 elsewhere, maybe on some fast food meal, anything than this godawful film. A word of warning, don&#x27;t buy this, rent it, watch it on Netfilx, or even YouTube for that matter. It is not worth your time, in fact rent Norbit or Jack &#x26; Jill instead. Yeah both films are still pretty awful, but they are watchable compared to this piece of crap film. In fact, any comedy not made by Aaron Seltzer and Jason Friedberg is better than this film, no matter how bad they may be. Avoid like the plague OR ELSE!!"
"&#x22;Epic Movie&#x22; is epic in its crapness. This latest entry in the movie parody series is the most excruciating, unfunny film you&#x27;ll see this year, if not your entire lifetime. The gutter-brow auteurs who helped write the first &#x22;Scary Movie&#x22; and created &#x22;Date Movie&#x22; milk their lame sketch-comedy minds for yet another punishingly uninspired skewering of Hollywood hits. Lacking any semblance of wit, the filmmakers generally go for the lowest common denominator with gross-out gags and slapstick physical comedy - if you still think a guy getting whacked in the balls is the apex of comic ingenuity, you&#x27;re going to love this flick. The humour here isn&#x27;t just tired - it&#x27;s comatose."
"This is perhaps the worst montage of clips I have ever seen. I refuse to call this sloppy mess a movie.  Despite Jayma Mays&#x27; effortless and lightly entertaining acting, the silliness becomes unbearably tiring after the first few scenes. The few cheap chuckles here and there were definitely not worth the time and money that was wasted.  Although I appreciate the effort taken to recreate the parody scenes, I could not help but feel that my taste had been dented after watching this avalanche of stupid. There&#x27;s immature yet funny e.g. Scary Movie. Then there is just putting on a desperate bid to mock. Epic Movie is the latter."
"This movie is insultingly bad and no person who enjoys or understand comedy on any level would ever find enjoyment in the hour and twenty minute waste of time called Epic Movie. This is writing and directing at their worst that ruin it for even the very few good actors who came in for a paycheck and nothing more.  I know most people don&#x27;t go to the movies expecting a grand and well put together experience that leaves them thinking or at least talking about the movie as they leave, but how did this movie even get made? Why was it successful? Are you all insane? I borrowed this movie from a friend out of sheer curiosity and still feel ripped off. He even warned me that it wasn&#x27;t worth watching. And I liked Space Mutiny.  Do anything besides watch this movie apart from self mutilation and you&#x27;ll find it more enjoyable. Not even recommended for bad movie survivalists."
"Did not make me laugh once. Did not make me smile once. And I absolutely love spoof films (Blazing Saddles, Spaceballs, Naked Gun, etc). I also absolutely love many of the films that Epic Movie &#x22;parodied&#x22;, so you would think the result would be even more delightful to me. No, sorry. This waste of film was absolute horsecrap.  The &#x22;writers&#x22; need to realise that simply referencing popular cultural is not funny in itself, and is not even &#x22;writing&#x22;. &#x27;Oh my God! He looks exactly like Johnny Depp!&#x27; They should rent out some of the above films and ask themselves just WHY the pop culture parody elements in those films are funny; it&#x27;s not all, or even mostly, to do with the giddy thrill of recognition.  Shockingly bad. In fact, obscenely bad; was anybody actually allowed to view the &#x22;script&#x22; before was granted, before actors make themselves available, etc?  The writers need shooting."
"I really don&#x27;t understand why Jason Friedberg and Aaron Seltzer are continuously making movies. It&#x27;s amazing that their movies are so pitiful. You would think that, although being as stupid as they are, they would be somewhat entertaining films...false. It&#x27;s always the same parodies over-and-over again. I find it funny how they are supposed to be parodies of the clich&#xE9;s in movies, yet become clich&#xE9;d themselves. Just add some pop-culture references in and you have yourselves a comedy!  Some scenes in this could have been funny, but were too long and overdone. Some jokes and scenes can make someone simply giggle or smile, but overall, none are truly laughable. These types of movies have no use in this world, honestly. Why are there people spending money on these movies? Or, an even better question yet, why is money being spent to make these movies?   &#x27;Epic movie&#x27; is an &#x27;Epic&#x27; failure. (I know, I&#x27;m so original... but hey, it&#x27;s the truth.)"
"It&#x27;s disappointing enough to see Jennifer Coolidge and Fred Willard in this turd (I missed the Crispin Glover as Willie Wonka) but it&#x27;s a severe disappointment to see Kal Penn in this, who&#x27;d recently starred in the thoughtful and, well, epic THE NAMESAKE. This is a rather extreme step down from that movie. Heck, this is a step down from HAROLD &#x26; KUMAR. IPECAC, sorry, EPIC MOVIE is just epic trash. Penn and the others named couldn&#x27;t have been in this for anything more than the paycheck.  It&#x27;s almost inconceivable that this was even meant to be funny. Almost as if the aim was to make a purposely unfunny movie and see who would be dumb enough to laugh.   Just RELENTLESSLY unfunny."
"Wow. I only have one question...should I call &#x27;this&#x27; a movie?? No, I&#x27;m being serious. In fact, this totally counts as a pathetic attempt to a funny Scary Movie re-run which was homemade by a bunch of mindless wanna-be-director nerds. I totally agree with it&#x27;s abysmal 2-star IMDb rating but I fail to understand why it&#x27;s not in the Bottom 100. Everything about this movie is stupid. The gags were hideous. Not a single point in the movie that I actually found them funn...er..&#x27;funny&#x27;. But (suprisingly) I actually found one thing funny about this movie. It&#x27;s the attempts for laughter. The film makers spent like a year pointlessly trying to whip up laughable script jokes to entertain the audience, when in the actual film, they ended up not delivering. How dumb?! And the film characters that they were &#x27;trying&#x27; to mock! Narnia, Harry Potter, Pirates of the Caribbean?! I mean come on!! You&#x27;re just mocking yourselves! Overall, I&#x27;ll sum it up by saying the film makers wasted a year of their life trying to make this junk and every bad word in this word describes how lame this movie is. One of the worst films I&#x27;ve ever seen. Epic Movie? Should be called Epic Failure!"
"OK, I just saw this crap on German TV. I expected a mindless and moderately funny comedy, kind of perfect after a hard days work.  Unfortunately, this movie isn&#x27;t even unintentionally funny. You can&#x27;t even laugh about how bad it is, because the repetitive &#x27;gags&#x27;, the randomly stuck together scenes and the dialogues are just plain dull. Boring. I laughed exactly four times throughout the whole movie, which is a rather bad quote for a comedy.  The main problem is that although the imitations of the original movies are rather well executed and the famous-actor-look-alikes really look similar to their counterparts, the directors somehow confused simple references to famous movies with being funny. Their interpretation of a gag consists mainly of people/animals getting hit, preferably in the crotch. Gets pretty dull after the, erm, 20th time? In conclusion, the movie is so boring it&#x27;s not even worth watching it for making fun of it. Doesn&#x27;t work, just a wast of time. Really.  PS: As this movie was a box-office success (!), expect more of this crap in near future. Which probably will become another success due to a huge marketing campaign... Idiocracy coming to life?!"
"Unfortunately i had to remove myself from the cinema before this garbage diluted my own intelligence.  Its yet another spoofing-knock-off made by drop-kicks for people whom fall into the &lt;50 IQ range - but even they aren&#39;t this stupid.  The whole thing is waste of money, a waste of time and surely would guarantee the directors get axed or better yet black listed by any studio on the face of this earth - put these bastards behind bars PLEASE.  Necking yourself would be more constructive than watching this garbage. End of story."
"Wow. Just wow. This might be the worst comedy of all time, and I am counting Larry the Cable Guy films. The spoofs in this movie come across as juvenile, uninspired, and just stupid. I laughed a lot at this film, but I was laughing at it, not with it. Truly a pathetic waste of money and time. How these guys keep managing to make more films (Date Movie, Meet the Spartans, and now Disaster Movie) amazes me. The only half-way funny parts are when Kal Penn mentions &quot;Stiffler&#39;s Mom&quot; and says he thinks he&#39;s been to White Castle before. American Pe and Harold and Kumar were good comedies. This isn&#39;t.  I give &quot;Epic Movie&quot; 1/10. It is to comedy what Fox News is to honest journalism."
"After seeing Date Movie I really was staying away from the crap that Seltzer and Friedburg make. But somehow I got drug to this movie by some of my friends on a Friday night. What else can I say? This movie was as worse as Date Movie. Epic Movie uses the same terrible puns as all of the Scary Movies and Date Movie. So I please ask of Aaron Seltzer and Jason Friedburg if they would just spare all of us and stop writing these crapfests. We have all seen that writing and directing movies are not their talent so far. So please give it up because all of your movies including: Date Movie, Epic Movie, Meet The Spartans and the upcoming Disaster Movie suck!  1/10 or if IMDb had the option of 0/10"
"The reason these movies suck (Date Movie, Epic Movie, Meet the Spartans, Disaster Movie, etc.) is because they&#39;re not as good as they think they are. In fact, I will go ahead and say the producers are not good at all. They think of the most random things to make fun of and jam it all into one movie. In the end, it turns out that the movie makes no sense whatsoever. It also includes very immature &quot;jokes&quot; where someone gets hurt, such as getting hit by a car. If anyone should enjoy these movies, it should not be any teenager/adult. People need to stop watching them because the producers see that the people will buy tickets to see their movies and they keep coming out with more crap."
"I&#39;m not usually hard on movies like these.... these spoofs are never very good movies. But generally they can at least make me laugh a few times and be the mindless distraction we all seek in these silly movies.... even Scary Movies 3 and 4 which most people hate, I can watch and admire how silly they are.... but this movie was horrid. It was as if they just collected a bunch of skits made by some drunk frat boys and put them into a movie.... there was no plot, or rhyme or reason to the madness. Fact is we had to turn the movie off because it was just so horrible we could not watch...... that has not happened since White Chicks which we left the theater on during the first 20 minutes..... Epic Movie had such potential but the execution was terrible. They seemingly wrote nothing, they just copied the original and then over played it back with a lame celebrity twist or a predictable joke....."
"No really ? where ?  Okay lets start with story.......oh wait, there is NONE!! Ehm direction? NOPE!!! Right.... Acting.....Damn none of that either!!!  Epic movie is a truly awful piece of film. Nothing can be said about it that would be described as a compliment. Its childish immature humour makes the film sound and look like it was written by a 9 year old child.  This is the only film i have ever walked out of the cinema while watching and the only comedy I can remember where i failed to laugh at all, not even a slight chuckle. the jokes are horrendously awful and they even go as far as steeling...THEIVING from Laural and Hardy a joke that only they could make funny(its the &quot;OUCH you standing on my foot&quot;/DA vinci code bit) awful i hope you agree.  I am trying really hard to think of a reason why studios make films of such a consistently low standard. parodying films that are much better (borat) and films that are a lot better but still not that good (snakes on a plane-most unfunny parody of all time). The reason is that the make money and there is indeed a market for them, that is perhaps the scariest thing of all.  over all id say this film is a disaster there are times where i may say &quot;not my thing&quot; or &quot;I can see why people like it&quot; but no. I find it hard to believe that an actual human could find this funny but then again A LOT of people must have. DEAR OH DEAR!!  IF you are thinking of watching it, DO!! so then you can inform everybody of the horrors that EPIC MOVIE has to offer. This film doesn&#39;t even fall into the file &quot;so bad it&#39;s good&quot; need i say more ? no so i&#39;m not going to.  total garbage 1 out of 10"
this was the worst movie of all times the movie was so bad that i was upset for even watching it. it was not funny it was ridiculous. it mad no since at all i truly hated it and wasted about of an hour watching. that garbage. that director should get a smack in the face for making such a horrible dumb movie. the acting was terrible and the combining of all the movies just mad it more even whack. for all the people that thought it was good is CRAZY i cant stand the movie and even when its on television i hate it as well. I&#39;m sorry for being so harsh but for the causing of this movie i don&#39;t go to the movies or watch movies anymore that combine all movies together.
"I really hated this movie. The acting was so bad. I mean, Kal Penn (Edward) was about the only funny character in the movie, but if I hadn&#39;t seen him before in Harold and Kumar, I guess his jokes would have never made me laugh. The rest of the actors are all mediocre, even Carmen Electra, who usually makes laugh in movies like Scary Movie (which I&#39;ll review some time later). The spoofs aren&#39;t even funny, but you do get a laugh once in a while, still, this film sucks. If you&#39;re at the video store and you are searching for something to rent, do NOT rent this. Even if you say there&#39;s nothing else, please, I beg you, search again and again and if you don&#39;t find anything, go to another video store."
"I watched this movie expecting it to be one of the worst movies I&#39;ve ever seen, I still managed to be disappointed and even shocked by how bad it was. This is perhaps the only movie I&#39;ve seen with less intentional laughs and less artistic merit than Battlefield Earth. An achievement in and of itself, well done I suppose. If you want a more pleasant experience than watching this, perform some major surgery on yourself or throttle a loved one to death whilst listening to the Spice Girls.  If this movie had a plot, characters or anything else that goes towards making some sort of coherent piece of cinema I missed it. The best acting by the people involved was done during the interviews in the run up to its release and on the red carpet during the premiere when they pretended they didn&#39;t want to cover their faces in shame.  In summary... spend your money on something more worthwhile, like burning it."
"Just to begin, I&#39;m not a picky moviegoer. I like stupid comedies, campy cheesy horror, I like anything. This movie is the only movie I have ever walked out on.  This is not even a comedy. It&#39;s just a bunch of nonsense. It&#39;s really that bad. I mean, I can&#39;t even describe how unfunny this is. If you are younger that 13 you will most likely find this movie hilarious. If you have any taste, you will not like this movie.  From what i saw of it, it&#39;s a bunch of lines that looks like they thought when they were writing it, &quot;i bet some stupid teens will laugh at this and recommend it to their friends&quot;. it&#39;s obvious they were only thinking of a quick buck than to make a quality stupid comedy.  0/10"
"I was visiting my Father for the summer and he happened across this film. I sat down and watched it with him and his wife only to realize what a terrible experience it was. First off, one should not be surprised that the Wayans brothers produced this egregious embarrassment to modern cinema as they are now infamous with films that try much to hard to be funny, only to fail horribly (Little Man, Date Movie, etc.). Secondly, making jokes about other bad movies like Nacho Libre is sad and really makes you realize how little effort was put into this production. Next, we come to the mediocre acting, I could have done a better job if I had been high on quaaludes while reading a script backwards. This film is a striking testament to the stupidity of our nation and the lack of innovation in American Cinema. After sitting through this movie for half an hour, I gouged my own eyes out,then put them in backwards to look at my own mutilated retina and that was more entertaining than this film!"
"I usually love these kinds of movies, and I disregard all negative reviews I see them as I am used to those kind of movies getting very low reviews no matter how good they are within their genre anyways. Seems like no reviewer want to admit they have the kind of childish humor these movies offer, and rather want to boast how intellectual they are by giving a boring and sad movie a great score instead. Well, I like some plain, shallow fun sometimes, its a great relief from everydays worries and stress.  So, although warned by all kinds of reviews, I went on to see this one after all. But, what do you know, they were actually right for once! Not only are the jokes not funny, but the movie totally lacks a proper story. It&#39;s basically a big pulp of sketches that are done randomly, then stitched together in the hope they will form some kind of movie. They try to make fun of movies who are already more crazy than this one, like the Borat movie, and it just does not click.  urgh, no, I wasted too much time watching the movie already, so no point wasting more time writing about it. Do yourself a favor, just don&#39;t watch it. And this is coming from someone who really like this type of movie..."
"its hard to believe that offensive, disgusting and immoral films like this are being shown to the world.  It spoofs various films that were huge successes at the box office. Many of these films were good quality productions that didn&#39;t need to be spoofed by the crazy people that made this film.  The acting is the worst i&#39;ve ever seen (camen Electra, Carmen Electra, Carmen Electra). Oh yea Carmen Electra was awful in this, nothing new. Most of the jokes were presumably made up by bad mouthed two year olds.  thats it really. I cant think of any type of person who would enjoy this. There truly is one word to some up this movie   CRAP!!!!!!!!!!!!!!"
"I&#39;ve just come back from watching Epic Movie at the theatre, and I have to be brutally honest but that has to be one of the worst movies I think I&#39;ve seen. It wasn&#39;t funny, it was badly put together and the story was stupid. The acting was...OK, but almost seemed amateur at some points. It was over the top stupid. There is a line to be crossed with that kind of &#39;comedy&#39; and it was definitely crossed. All it seemed to be about was sex, half naked girls, racial jokes and general lameness. I don&#39;t think I laughed at all but maybe smiled at one point. Some parts of it seemed to be completely random and irrelevant. Maybe it&#39;s just that American comedy isn&#39;t funny, or that this movie took it to a whole new level of dumb. It&#39;s also very short, which I suppose is a good thing because any longer and I might&#39;ve walked out. The person I went with agreed that it was rubbish. I think that&#39;ll do. I don&#39;t recommend this movie, and I&#39;ll be surprised if it doesn&#39;t spoil the reputations of some of the movie makers or actors."
"This is quite possibly the worst film i have ever had the misfortune to pay entry for. Myself my girlfriend and six friends went to see this awful attempt at comedy only to leave halfway through. The acting was terrible, the jokes were so poor they begged belief. I can&#39;t believe that this rubbish made it to the final cut, let alone made general release. The parody&#39;s were so weak. The story has been shoehorned together with absolutely no attempt to make any real sense. After seeing Hector Himenez in the brilliant Nacho Libre i was so disappointed to find him amongst this dross. This film will surely ruin the careers of the actors/actresses involved. Why does America churn out these pitiful attempts at humour when they surely must know how bad it is. If you have an enemy or want to make one buy them the DVD when it comes out, it will most definitely offend. I would like to point out that since suggesting going to see this movie my girlfriend has left me, my friends no longer return my calls and people i don&#39;t even know shout and throw things at me in the street. You have been warned !!!!!"
"Four orphans from different movies like &quot;The Da Vinci Code&quot;, &quot;Nacho Libre&quot;, &quot;Snakes on a Plane&quot; and &quot;X-Men The Last Stand&quot; named Edward (Kal Penn), Peter (Adam Campbell), Lucy (Jayma Mays) and Susan (Faune Chambers) have joined together after finding golden tickets from Willybars that sets them up on a epic adventure to the chocolate factory of Willy (Crispin Glover) where he&#39;s actually a cannibal who uses human parts as the secret ingredients of his candies. Luckily they find a wardrobe that sends them to the magical world of gnarnia where the Whitebitch (Jennifer Coolidge) rules over the land, the half-man half-lion named Also (Fred Willard) and characters from other movies like &quot;Harry Potter&quot;, &quot;Superman Returns&quot;, &quot;Borat&quot;, &quot;Star Wars&quot;, &quot;Casino Royale&quot;, &quot;Pirates of the Caribbean&quot; etc. to battle her.  Truly terrible and unfunny spoof movie from Jason Friedberg and Aaron Seltzer! some of the movies in this feature that they attempt to spoof are hardly epic like &quot;Borat&quot;, &quot;Legally Blonde&quot;, &quot;Snakes on a Plane&quot;, &quot;Tallageda Nights&quot;, etc. but there are a few movies that are epic like &quot;Narnia&quot;, &quot;LOTR&quot; and &quot;Star Wars&quot; even &quot;Harry Potter&quot; that they spoof but fail. The rest of the film is just crummy references to recent stuff, pop culture and stuff they read from tabloids. The so-called humor in this movie is groan inducing and not witty at all, it&#39;s just plain crappy as it just doesn&#39;t make you laugh but more like turn your stomachs into knots. I mean, come on? Michael Jackson as V from &quot;V For Vendetta&quot;? a reference to MTV&#39;s &quot;Punk&#39;d&quot; and &quot;The Crib&quot;? fart and turd jokes? movie characters from other movies dancing to hip-hop? COME ON FOLKS, THIS IS NOT COMEDY AT ALL NOR A SPOOF! it&#39;s just referencing and ripping off stuff. Although there were some hot chicks like Electra, Mays and that naked chick that comes out of the wardrobe in the unrated version but nothing can&#39;t save this disaster of a wannabe-spoof when it should have been called &quot;Blockbuster movie&quot; instead of &quot;Epic Movie&quot;.  This movie makes &quot;Hobgoblins&quot; look like Oscar winning material, avoid this movie like the plague."
"They played this at a student theater I hang out at. This had started about 20 minutes after I got out of the movie I was seeing (Transformers), and a few friends and I were in the lobby hanging around. Then we noticed something, every few minutes or so another person was leaving the theater Epic Movie was playing in.  I asked one guy who was leaving what was going on, and he looked back at the theater and said, &quot;No...just...no.&quot; Then he left.  After going home, I watched the trailer for it, and thoroughly agreed.  In my opinion, movies require something more than taking a character or a situation that we all saw in theatres last year, and putting that on screen with a stupid joke thrown in. Especially when that joke is usually someone getting hit with, something?  That sounds about right."
"My friends and I watch bad movies all the time. Usually they end up being pretty funny B-movies and are pretty silly. For SOME INSANE reason my friend wanted to see this movie in the theaters. Well after seeing that I vowed to NEVER watch that movie again.  I was at another friend&#39;s house one day and they had RENTED this for some reason (I must have some retarded friends or they at least have TERRIBLE tastes in film I guess...at least some of the time). One of them wanted to watch it. I ended up having to sit through a majority of it a second time. Well it turns out the second time was the &quot;unrated&quot; version (it just had different takes of the same shots where they said the F-word instead of what they said in the theatrical version of the film). It was no longer. Thank God. It sucks that it wasn&#39;t made shorter though because this film is TORTURE to sit though even ONCE.  Up until seeing Epic Movie, the &quot;worst film I had ever seen&quot; title went to a movie my friend showed me one time called &quot;Malibu Beach Vampires&quot;. I have seen parts of &quot;Malibu Beach Vampires&quot; since watching Epic Movie and &quot;Malibu Beach Vampires&quot; doesn&#39;t look like such a bad movie anymore.  I&#39;m serious, I have NEVER EVER seen a movie that I just absolutely HATED the entire time I was watching it, but THIS is the first. I have disliked movies, I have not been able to stand some movies, but there has NEVER EVER been a film I just completely hated before I saw this film. They try to make everything so wacky and it&#39;s just SO BADLY GRASPING for laughs that (when I saw it in theaters) no one was laughing! They think that the more retarded hip hop musical sequences and midgets there are in this movie, the funnier it&#39;ll be. Well I&#39;ll say it was more and more clich&eacute;, stupid, and annoying the more it went on.  The film relies more on parodies than it does a cohesive story or any jokes that are actually supposed to be funny. Jason Friedberg and Aaron Seltzer I cannot stand you two. I hate to say it but you two SUCK. Your previous films have been &quot;parody&quot; comedies (if you can even call them comical in ANY WAY) and just recycle previously used jokes. A joke is funny when it&#39;s the real thing, not when it&#39;s a rip off, generic version of the same joke that was previously told in a better fashion.  Jason and Aaron, I hope that you two never make another film again (even though sadly they ARE making another film) because your movies are unoriginal, generic, filled with horrid acting, reused jokes, and just abominations in the eyes of God and all of his people (which includes the entire human race). I&#39;ll say it again, before seeing this movie, I have never EVER just outright HATED a film but Jason and Aaron, your movie SUCKS! I intend to be a filmmaker myself and I can say that the few shorts I&#39;ve made will entertain people more than this piece of trash.  DO NOT see Epic Movie if you want to keep your soul in one piece. After watching this trash, I feel that a part of me has died and I want my money back for having supported this horrifying abomination. If Jason and Aaron expect me to see their NEXT film, they will have to pay ME because Epic movie was one of the WORST things I&#39;ve ever witnessed in my life and will be one of those things I will shield my kids away from seeing some day. I hate this film."
"wow. i saw date movie and thought to myself, why am i watching this crap? when epic movie came out, i thought it might be worth checking out because it spoofs some of my favorites, and the trailer didn&#39;t look that bad. but i was wrong. very wrong. it was the worst film i ever saw. ever since i saw it i wanted to get the 90 minutes of my life back and erase the dreadful memory in my mind that is epic movie. i would rather watch paint dry than watch this! i felt so stupid watching it because it was very stupid indeed. the writing, directing, acting, and everything else was just crap. i can&#39;t believe studios will even make movies like this.   save your money and don&#39;t make the same mistake i did and do something valuable with your 90 minutes."
"This is truly one of those films that you&#39;ll be sorely glad you didn&#39;t pay to see. It contains a reference to every popular movie or TV entity you could possibly count, but reeled off in a slipshod manner, unfortunately, with little approaching a decent gag.  Between long bouts of sloppy dancing and rapping, obviously designed to waste time, there is little of value. One or two rather striking spoof impersonations were mired in the mediocrity of the humour. It frequently seems obvious that little thought or effort was invested in the movie.  Even the actors appeared to spend most of the time looking embarrassed, and with good cause! Avoid."
"Did you laugh with the &#39;4-logy&#39; scary movie? Did you? Didn&#39;t you? Well, you can be sure about this one: if you like this kind of movies you&#39;ll not like and laugh with this one, and if you don&#39;t like this kind, you&#39;ll hate yourself, because you waste every cent in this horrible movie. I can&#39;t understand what&#39;s in mind of directors, producers, and -the most important- the movie studios and investors that approved it!! Really, this should be better in a comic TV-series chapter... maybe... half an hour? I guess nobody would be able to be seated in front of this lacks-of-respect film more than an hour. Hollywood (or whoever): think about it next time.  Regards,  Fer.  P.S.: I&#39;m really sorry to have seen David Carradine in this garbage. So, so disappointed..."
"Earlier this year, probably while &quot;Epic Movie&quot; was playing in theatres, I can&#39;t remember how, but I came across its page on this site. I had never heard of it beforehand. Seeing that it was in the Bottom 100, I did not intend to go and see it on the big screen, but after it came into stores, I rented it. In the end, I was not left wondering why this parody movie was so hated, and I&#39;m now joining the thousands of others who have given it the lowest possible vote on IMDb, 1/10!   Four orphaned teenagers, Peter, Susan, Lucy, and Edward, all win golden tickets to go on an epic adventure! However, while in Willy Wonka&#39;s factory, they learn that he wants to use certain body parts of theirs to make candy! They manage to escape, but the evil chocolate factory owner is after them, so they must all find a place to hide! Lucy finds a wardrobe to hide in, but after she enters, she soon finds herself in the land of Gnarnia! Soon, the other three also end up in Gnarnia, and all four of them find themselves in more danger! Their new enemy is the evil ruler of the land, the White B*&amp;#%! Unfortunately, Edward is fooled by this villain and becomes her prisoner, so the others have to try and save him!   Why is this parody of several movies from recent years so bad? Well, basically because it&#39;s incredibly stupid! Now, comedies can be incredibly stupid in a good way, but &quot;Epic Movie&quot; is in a very bad and frightening way! Not every single moment of this movie is absolutely disgusting, but a lot of it is! I usually don&#39;t have a problem with crude sex jokes and toilet humour, and there&#39;s plenty of that kind of humour in this movie, but here, it&#39;s done extremely poorly! Terrible &quot;gags&quot; include Willy Wonka wanting to use the main characters for candy (especially the &quot;nuts&quot; part), a pregnant Hermione (from the Harry Potter stories, but portrayed a lot differently in this movie) farting, Susan throwing up all over the place, the sex scene with Peter and Mystique (from &quot;X-Men&quot;), among others! Some of these may be worse than they sound, and the gags that are not outright bad are simply mediocre, so they are of no significance.  I haven&#39;t seen every movie satirized (I don&#39;t know if &quot;satirized&quot; is the right word, more like &quot;ripped off&quot;) in this spoof, but have seen a handful of them, and they&#39;re all better than this, even if some are not that good. Not that good is better than horrendous! The ones I haven&#39;t seen, I would probably MUCH rather watch any of them than this stinker! Spoof movies can be very funny, and one can enjoy them whether they&#39;re a fan of the movie(s) they parody or not. However, with this 2007 flop, it&#39;s the opposite! It doesn&#39;t matter what you think of the movies lampooned here, because this horrible excuse for a movie is unacceptable either way! What was everyone involved in this steaming pile thinking?! Trust me, if you have any taste whatsoever, and the word &quot;intelligence&quot; means something to you, you do NOT want to watch &quot;Epic Movie&quot;! I don&#39;t know how long this will stay in the IMDb Bottom 100, but for however long it stays there, it&#39;s a good place for it!"
"A couple of days a fried of mine let me this fantastic film. This by far is all the cast worst work, including the director and the rest of the team. The best part was when the screen faded at the end. Really the real intentions of humor went astray with this film, a lot of scenes weren&#39;t funny, in contrast, were disgusting. Almost nobody graded this movie above of 1/10, and I&#39;m sure if it has had a worst score, no hesitate, all of us would have graded it 0/10 or -1/10. Anyway, just abstain from watching Epic Movie. Don&#39;t spend your money and your time, at least I didn&#39;t spend money watching it but spend my time. Please don&#39;t make the same mistake."
"When we saw the previews to this, we thought, wow, that looks really funny! Well, guess what? All the funny stuff was in the previews!! And sadly, these previews were probably the only parts of the movie that could be shown on TV. This movie was raunchy, rude, disgusting and just plain foul. I suppose if that is your sense of humor, then it will go over very well for you. However, for me, it was all in very bad taste. I wasn&#39;t one bit surprised when the family in front of us with 3 young boys under the age of 13 left the theater about 15 minutes after the film started. This was certainly not intended to be a kid&#39;s movie. I don&#39;t even think I would let a teenager watch this one. It took one of the best kid&#39;s movies ever made and turned it into a nightmare. We felt it was so bad that we immediately had to go see another movie to get the bad taste out of our mouths and the horrible images out of our heads. Parents BEWARE! This is not an appropriate movie for anyone under the age of 21!! And even then, I wouldn&#39;t suggest it. For those of you who actually liked this movie - I feel sorry for you and your sense of humor!"
"This is one of those films which just make me mad. Why do movies like this gain the little success they do without deserving any of this? It&#x27;s because some people like it of course and... I really don&#x27;t see how.  The very first joke merely got a slight &#x22;heh&#x22; out of me, and the rest of it was just painful. The jokes are just bad upon worse, when they can even be called jokes. The rest of it are tons and tons of references to other movies. I won&#x27;t even bother listing all the references and so called &#x22;parodies&#x22; this movie does, because my fingers would probably start bleeding from too much typing.  No joke got a proper laugh out of me and no reference was funny. That&#x27;s one of the many things this movie gets wrong, a reference is funny only when you put the right spin on it. Nobody in the real world will laugh if I just say the word: Spider Man. Because I refer to a Marvel superhero but say nothing funny about it. That&#x27;s how most of the movie&#x27;s references work. The ones they try to make a parody out of are just ruined one way or another, and without a proper storyline with actual effort put into it, that&#x27;s really all the film is hanging on.  The film is terribly unfunny from start to finish and all I could think of while watching it, was: &#x22;Make it stop&#x22;. I feel insulted that I don&#x27;t get money for publishing my (according to several strangers) enjoyable short stories in the internet, but the people behind this trash did millions upon millions of dollars. It is just wrong."
"I have never really understood why people even bother making films like this. They are predictable, annoying and just not funny. In this movie I laughed maybe once and that was it.  I think making movies like this is just a waste of money and time. Its obvious what the outcome is going to be so why make them is a mystery to be honest. Whatever you do DO NOT WATCH IT! I will save you valuable time!   The acting is poor, the jokes and humour would only appeal to around 1% of the population if that. Overall a terrible experience and why I sat through all of it is still a mystery to me today."
"(I would vote 0/10 if I could) This movie is garbage. To be honest, when I first saw it when it came out, I actually did find it funny, but since then, my opinion has changed a lot, and so has my humor. Epic Movie trades in good plot, character development, proper story telling, and creativity for more and more efforts to try and get a laugh, but it doesn&#x27;t work. Not only is it unfunny, but they do a lot of references in the movie. I like subtle references, but Epic Movie is not subtle with it at all. There&#x27;s one part in the movie where Harry Beaver tells them, &#x22;I&#x27;ll meet you at Aslows. May the force be with you.&#x22; How on earth is that funny? Epic Movie does a lot of obvious references attempting to be funny. It doesn&#x27;t work. There&#x27;s also a lot of pointless montages, like when Mr. Thomnas shows his house on Cribs, or when Willy Wonka tortures the kids, making candy out of them. (I&#x27;m not making this up.) How does this benefit the story? This movie doesn&#x27;t care about plot or anything not named comedy that can make a movie good. It only tries to be funny, and fails miserably. Why was this even made?"
"We follow four orphans from their own different parts of the world as they all come together to be part of a so called &#x22;Epic adventure&#x22;.  There&#x27;s Lucy (Jayma Mays) who&#x27;s adopted father (David Carradine) has just been killed by a mysterious murderer in (what I think is) the Louvre. Edward (Kal Penn) who has just been thrown out of the monastery, where he&#x27;s lived all his life, after insulting the cooking skills of the monks. Susan (Faun Chambers)who, on her way to Namibia to meet her adopted parents (Brad Pitt and Angelina Jolie), get&#x27;s thrown out of a plane. And Peter(Adam Campbell), a mutant who goes to a Mutantschool and gets picked on by the other mutants for having comically small wings on his back. They all get hold of four &#x22;Golden tickets&#x22; that gives them a guided tour of an eccentric billionaire&#x27;s whimsical candy factory. In the factory Lucy finds a magic wardrobe that leads to an enchanted fantasy land called &#x22;Gnarnia&#x22; (for legal purposes), and so the &#x22;epic&#x22; adventure begins.  Jason Friedberg and Aaron Seltzer are two lazy writers who must have seen many Zucker movies but never bothered to stop and think about what it is that make people like these movies or what actually makes them funny. Their formula for humor seem to be that bad special effects, obvious stunt doubles, randomly thrown in hip-hop/musical numbers, low brow potty humor and movie references are by themselves always hilarious no matter what the circumstances are. A few jokes made me chuckle but it&#x27;s not enough to save this train wreck. It would had been better if they had settled on a main theme like &#x22;fantasy&#x22; and limited it to: The Chronicles of Narnia, Harry potter and the Lord of the rings movies. That, plus a story that is not dependent on the Friedberg and Seltzer formula of &#x22;humor&#x22;.  This is a very bad movie. If you want a good spoof movie, see the &#x22;Hotshots&#x22; movies, &#x22;Airplane!&#x22;, &#x22;The naked gun&#x22; movies, &#x22;Top Secret&#x22; or any movie not made by the two hacks that made this &#x22;Comedy&#x22;."
I really didn&#x27;t expect that much from this movie but it was so rubbish I could not believe it. I did not laugh once while watching this movie. They say jokes that we have all heard before. It&#x27;s probably the worst movie in the &#x27;Parody&#x27; genre and I don&#x27;t say this very often however it is probably one of the worst movies ever. It&#x27;s an Epic Failure for Jason Friedberg. I don&#x27;t think I watched the ending because I was so bored. It is a stupid movie with people who cannot act to save their lives. There is a lot of crude humour which normally I don&#x27;t mind but it wasn&#x27;t that funny when they said it. I really do not recommend anyone to see this because after watching this you will feel so angry for wasting your money.
"This is possibly one of the worst films i have ever seen. The &#x22;funny&#x22; parts just aren&#x27;t funny, the plot is ridiculous and the acting is caveman era.  I didn&#x27;t laugh once throughout the entire film, they try so hard to make you laugh that it just ends up making you feel awkward. If you want to imagine what it is like without watching it. Imagine making a film where everyone involved has all their sense of humour sucked out of them and replaced with a list of things you should never do to a film, then give them a decent budget, which you know full well they will most likely blow on drink and sweets. Go away for six months, leave them to do it all themselves, come back after that time, don&#x27;t edit it or watch it, just chuck it on DVD and start selling it. There we go. Rant over.  More reviews at http://abraxasstudios.web.officelive.com/Reviews.aspx"
"I RATED THIS MOVIE A 0 OUT OF 10 BUT IMDb&#x27;S LOWEST SCORE WAS 1! When Edward, Peter, Lucy and Susan each follow their own path, they end up finding themselves at Willy&#x27;s Chocolate factory. Walking through a wardrobe, they discover the world of Gnarnia, which is ruled by the White Bitch. Meeting up with characters such as Harry Potter and Captain Jack Swallows, the newly reunited family must team up with Also, a wise-but-horny lion to stop the army of the White Bitch.  So two of the six writers of Scary Movie (as we keep on being reminded in the trailers so we don&#x27;t forget) have come up with another &#x27;parody&#x27; movie, but is it really necessary? The story is awful and lacks just about everything. The characters are made to be dumb for cheap laughs (yet again), the acting is a joke as none of the cast could act if their very lives depended on it and the direction was torturous. The worst part is the jokes and the funny scenes, they weren&#x27;t even funny at all. There really is nothing to review since the whole movie is just a joke.  I watch these movies to see whether it can get any worse and they do. I still can&#x27;t believe they were involved with the Scary Movie series. Epic Movie is nothing more than a comedy that anyone below the age of five would find funny. Terrible.  Read more reviews at: www.dudedazzmoviereviews.wordpress.com"
"Would someone out there please stop these filmmakers from making movies ever again? Every movie they have made has been awful, awful, awful! No point at all, just random strings of thin movie parodies/spoofs stuck together with no real connection between them. Lots of midget/sex/poop jokes with no point and worst of all they are not even funny! When you have a movie that&#x27;s only 80 minutes long with about 30 jokes a minute and all of these movies fail to make us laugh even one time, there is something seriously wrong with your movie making skills. How do these guys keep getting to make movies? Do they actually make money with these awful things? Who watches/enjoys this crap? Terrible movies made by -- I can only guess they are idiots or brain damaged monkeys."
"do you know whats interesting about this movie, the fact that you cant spoil it, there is no way you can spoil this movie. The movie has no plot what so ever, and there is no humor what so ever. why is this movie listed as a comedy? comedy&#x27;s are supposed to be funny, this one falls on its ass by giving poop jokes and pop culture references. the pop culture references make no sense what so ever its just them saying &#x22;Look its the x-men.&#x22; so the movie treats the audience like we are all morons who cant remember a movie that came out about 4 months ago, but the thing is they don&#x27;t reference anything in the movie, they reference everything in the trailers, so they haven&#x27;t even seen the movie. i hope the creators of these movies are strapped in a clockwork orange chair and watch all of these movies until their eyes bleed. also the movie is called &#x22;Epic Movie&#x22; but they only make fun of one epic, &#x22;Narnia&#x22; which shows that they havens been to film school. Please don&#x27;t see this movie"
"I cannot believe how unfunny this pile of dung is, I mean, wow. You would think that these masters of the ant-comedy would have learned something from &#x22;Date Movie&#x22;, but these guys ere just like nope, we need to make something even worse, so then we enter Epic Movie, a movie that refuses to try to make sophisticated humor and instead uses a bunch of dumb fart jokes and sex jokes. If we take a look back at &#x22;Airplane!&#x22;, we actually see some timeless jokes, and overall a funny movie. This, however, is the circumcision and a mockery of parody movies. I honestly cannot watch a parody movie now because of the scar that these filmmakers have left on me with their epic piece of crap,&#x22;Epic Movie&#x22;. If I could give it a zero, I would,but since IMDb doesn&#x27;t have let you give it a zero I have to give it a 1, and thats too generous."
"2 years after its release, and it all-ready premiered on channel 4, Just goes to show how bad this movie really is.  First few minutes of this is junk, then, Hey its Kal Penn, from Harold and kumar, maybe this wont be so bad after all.... Oh how wrong was I,  Kal Penn Literally sold out his movie to this piece of junk, its sickening, for 1 half assed joke.  Nothing, funny, or original, 1/2 the movie is just filler, obvious filler, as if they were trying to stretch the movie time to the 90 minute mark with 30 minutes of content. Glad I did not pay to see it, and waited for it to be on TV. I would certainly feel completely ripped off if I had spent a penny on it.  1 chuckled at 1 thing, Just 1 thing.. you make funny movie... not oh wait, that was mine."
"Without a doubt one of the worst movies I&#x27;ve ever paid money to see. Good thing I only rented it. The plot is almost nonexistent, and only serves as a vehicle to wheel moviegoers from one poorly-executed parody sequence to the next.  While sporting several funny actors, the movie writers did not write a script that does them justice.  Don&#x27;t buy it, don&#x27;t rent it. Watch clips online, because any money you could spend on the DVD would be a colossal waste. Makes me wonder why they continue to tape these.  Without a doubt, a model for what Golden Raspberry prospects should aspire to."
"This film is kind of like loads of other films but in one.  They had no good idea so they decide to try and make other good films funny but failing.  I watched about 30 minutes of this film and then turned it off. Was the worst film and attempt of a comedy I&#x27;ve ever seen.  I don&#x27;t recommend this film. A lame cast too.  It&#x27;s similar to Scary Movie. Lots of films in one, but it&#x27;s not as funny, not as good cast, it&#x27;s pathetic and rubbish. It should be a crime for it to be called &#x22;Epic Movie&#x22; as it the opposite of the title.  If you want to waste 80 minutes of your life, you could at least find a better film. This film isn&#x27;t even worth the rental."
"Please make Jason Friedberg &amp; Aaron Seltzer stop doing movies. Forever.  I&#39;ve had it with them trying to ride on the &quot;Scary Movie&quot;&#39;s success wave.  According to how awful their last 3 movies are, its pretty obvious that the &quot;Scary Movie&quot;&#39;s films were a success thanks to the Wayans brothers, and not this pathetic duo...  Watching their movies is worst than torture.  When I&#39;ve watched this movie, I had no idea how bad its going to be, right into the first 5 minutes. When it reached the 15th minute mark, its gotten so unbearable that me and my friend, who was watching it with me, just decide to stop it right there and play another one instead."
Epic Movie cannot be commented on or reviewed in the traditional sense as there really is no plot to consider.  Four friends go to some place where they get moved around sets resembling movies you may or may not have seen. I believe that&#39;s the general gist of what happens. I was too busy trying to tear my eyes out to really watch. I think I made it to the scene where Crispin Glover started break dancing before I blacked out completely only to be woken by the screaming of my cat.  After putting the cat down (I couldn&#39;t let it suffer) I resolved to finish the movie in the same way I was determined to survive those terrible years at the Hanoi Hilton. To my surprise the ending credits did not usher in Armageddon and since burning (it took several attempts) the DVD and scattering the ashes the migraines and nightmares have ceased entirely. I hope this works for you.  Epic movie is by far the worst parody movie ever made. I can&#39;t think of another attempt at comedy as insipid as this. Period. It&#39;s as bad an attempt at parody as George W Bush&#39;s attempt at a presidency was. Please stay away. Go watch Airplane instead. You&#39;ll feel better about yourself in the morning.
"The spoof movie was started in the hilarious AIRPLANE!, the trend continued with THE NAKED GUN and TOP SECRET, those were funny movies, it has since turned itself into a horrible, money controlled scheme to take peoples hard earned cash.  EPIC MOVIE (about as epic as a kindergarten play), is and I&#39;m going to emphasize it as hard as I possibly could a horrible, horrible, HORRRIBLE movie. I actually got a headache watching this piece of crap. It makes PLAN 9 FROM OUTER SPACE look like POLTERGEIST, JAWS, PSYCHO and THE SHINING&#39;S greatness combined.  None of that hasn&#39;t bee said before. But let me tell you this film is about as funny as a funeral. No worse, as funny as going to prison. The film tries to rely on it&#39;s &quot;jokes&quot;, which are no better then fart and poop jokes. My 5-year old cousin could&#39;ve wrote a better script.  so, in another words, only watch this if someone else&#39;s life in is danger."
"No.  I only saw this film because a friend bought it (unwittingly unaware that it was a turd in a DVD case), and I really want back that hour of my life. Seriously, why do these people make films? I can guarantee you that this film is NOT &quot;from the guys who watch too many movies&quot;, its from &quot;those tools who have seen too many TRAILERS&quot;.  The &quot;jokes&quot; are terrible, the acting sucks worse than a plank of wood with an angry face drawn on it, and guess what? Some of their jokes are even &quot;lifted&quot; from the films they are parodying (seriously).  I assure you, you aren&#39;t missing anything by not watching this film.  DON&#39;T WASTE YOUR TIME."
"Obviously, I am not going to be the first person to crap on Epic Movie. It is a sweltering turd, and you absolutely should not watch it. Now, it is worth point out that I am a giant fan of kitsch and camp, and love gems like &quot;Troll 2&quot; and &quot;Freddy Got Fingered&quot;. Sometimes, if a movie can stretch itself too being ridiculously absurd, it can actually manage to develop its own sense of charm. This simply is not the case with Epic Movie.  And honestly, I expected it to be a bit more likable as camp. After all, cult favorites David Carradine and Crispin Glover appear in it. However, their appearances are little more than cameos, and neither are given an opportunity to camp things up appropriately.  So what makes this movie fail so detrimentally? For one, the writers spend too much time explaining their jokes. They should take notes from the Coen brothers on this one. They obviously feel the audience is completely retarded. But since this movie has an IMDb overall rating of 2, they apparently misjudged the audience. Second off, it would help if the jokes were funny. The typical joke for this movie is making a pop culture movie reference (may or may not be from an actual epic movie), point out where the reference came from, and turn it into a fart joke. I honestly laughed at no more than two of their jokes, and those laughs were more light chuckles. There simply isn&#39;t any sense of invention here.  It is clear there isn&#39;t any intent to make quality cinema here. I mean, there is NO intention of any kind. I&#39;m not sure what the business model is, maybe they are making this on a low budget and getting a lot of sponsorship money and then making enough on ticket sales to come out in the green over all? I don&#39;t know, but the mind certainly boggles that these guys are able to continue making films. It is really surprising they are not getting financed the same way Uwe Boll does in Germany. However, the bottom line is: avoid this. Even if you think it might be funny to watch as a bad movie to make fun of MST3K style, don&#39;t do it. Because this isn&#39;t even unintentionally funny. It&#39;s just not funny, and it sucks. Stay away. Do not watch this movie. Seriously."
"Epic movie can be summarized as meaningless pop culture references tied together in the weakest plot in the history of motion pictures. Movies like this make me appreciate the golden age of spoofs where movies like &quot;The naked gun&quot;, &quot;airplane&quot;, and, yes, even &quot;scary movie&quot;. but what these two wannabe filmmakers churn out on a yearly basis gives the word &quot;spoof&quot; a bad name. epic movie should be branded for what it is, a useless waste of ninety minutes of your life so that these two &quot;directors&quot; can cash-in on the &quot; &quot;-movie franchise while putting in a minimal effort. i hope that their latest attempt &quot;disaster movie&quot; bombs so bad that no studio will hire them and they will leave us all alone."
"Yeah stupid tagline huh?  Yes... stupid quotes like this.  My friend had rented this movie from a video shop.  I think I watched not ten minutes of it, before I started playing games on my mobile phone.  It sucked.  If the title ends in movie, and is made past 2007.. it must suck. EPIC MOVIE GAY MOVIE DISASTER MOVIE SUPERHERO MOVIE MEET THE SPARTANS.... AH MOVIE! YOU MAY AS WELL HAVE A MOVIE CALLED PRINTER MOVIE. ITS ABOUT PRINTERS SAVING THE WORLD, THATS PARODYING A PARODY MOVIE OF A MOVIE... YEAH.. IM A FILM MAKER THATS GOING TO MAKE MONEEEEEY!  Don&#39;t see any movie that ends in movie. They suck."
"This piece of junk cannot be compared to any movie possibly imaginable.This has got to be one of the top 3 worst &quot;movies&quot; (if it&#39;s possible to call it that) of all-time for eternity until the human race vanishes.There is no plot,there is no decent acting and these parodies were just painful to watch.It just looked like of bunch of drunk losers that were so bored they went to the video store, rented all these movies and asked themselves how they could make it so stupid people will think it&#39;s funny. How in the world did this get to a studio ? Some guy who had a friend in Hollywood went up to him and asked him if he could make a piece of junk that will look good in the trailers. &quot;Sure that&#39;s a great idea Joe! Let&#39;s get a huge budget,take a bunch of pretty successful films,take some actors that will pretend they&#39;re drunk and let them soil their future careers,make a lot of vulgar and stupid jokes for the piece of trash with no plot that Britney Spears can enjoy, mix it all together and we get a huge grossing crap that people will go see to waste 8 bucks on to leave after 20 minutes! It&#39;s perfect!&quot; I walked out after a half hour of torture and I couldn&#39;t sleep at the thought that I actually sat in that movie theater.I was so ashamed I didn&#39;t leave the house for 3 days. I advise people to stay as far possible from this,for your own health. This is the perfect way to kill yourself if you are thinking about suicide.If you enjoy this ,you should seriously consider therapy.  I give it a 0, and I could even give it a negative number rating. Trust me , rolling down a cliff and until you get a serious headache is more fun than this."
i saved my one star rating for this movie by these guys and far out it sucks i cannot go any lower. because giving this movie a one star rating people might think it is OK to sacrifice an hour and a half of their life for brain dead entertainment. its not people! this movie has to be the worst parody i have seen. its a load of trash. was it directed by a bunch of drunk people with no imagination? i&#39;m quite sure if you gave money to a bunch of teenagers with an imagination they could make a better movie. heck probably 10 year olds even. how are these movies given any budget to begin with? take my advice and avoid this movie at all costs!
"Please disregard the one star on this review. Unfortunately you can&#39;t score a film below one. Or below zero. I didn&#39;t pay to see this movie, it was on free-to-air TV. I am so very thankful that I didn&#39;t waste anything but time on this movie.  Take a random mish-mash of various films from the past few seasons, glue them together with a cast of no-talent idiots and the vaguest of plot lines, insert jokes that a pre-pubescent kid MIGHT giggle at if they were drunk and/or stoned and you&#39;ll actually wind up with something better than this was.  Absolutely terrible. The fact that this made over $86 million is surely a sign of the Apocalypse."
What an Epic peace of crap.  An embarrassment to the word &#39;movie&#39;.  Stick with the good spoof movies like the Scary movie series.  Aaron Seltzer and Jason Friedberg who co-wrote the Scary movies should try something different. What do they have to lose they already lost respect from almost everyone.  There work has already rubbed off on another Scary Movie writer. Craig Mazin who made Superhero Movie is trying there way to. I am yet to see Superhero Movie. But it does look like another piece of trash.  The humor in this is terrible. The jokes go on and on and on. Not funny at all. If you think watching a Da Vinci Code spoof with break dancing is funny then you will like it. But for me it was terrible. The worse movie to come out in 2007.  I don&#39;t recommend this. I wouldn&#39;t even recommend to someone i hate. The only reason you should be caught watching this is to see how bad it is for yourself.  So we have yet another spoof movie from two of the worse directors/writers in movies today. Sorry Seltzer and Friedberg you two are probably really nice guys but I HATE YOUR MOVIES.  1/10
"It looks like the Hollywood industry hit the &quot;spoof&quot; virus every since 2000&#39;s Scary Movie where it feels like year after year a movie that pokes fun of certain topics must hit the big screens.  They done it again.  Epic Movie has the same writers from the Ill-fated Date Movie where instead of romantic flicks, Epic Movie makes fun of the latest saga movies from Superman Returns, Harry Potter, Pirates of the Caribbean, X-Men, and others where the main spoof is The Chonicals of Narnia: The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe. I&#39;ll admit some parts were funny to watch, but like Date Movie it suffers the same fate where it&#39;s all about the gross moments rather than laughter."
"I can now die saying that I have seen the worst movie ever..... I am in awe that people are actually give money to make a movie like this. I feel that now that I am dumber than when the movie started. I can only have this movie to thank. I&#39;m 20 minutes in, and I feel my life slipping away, and i&#39;m not upset about it. Anything would be better than suffering the horror of seeing another minute of this. If I wouldn&#39;t have run out of bullets already, i&#39;d gladly plant one in my head. Please, America, stop letting movies like this be made. Let us gain some respect back. Until then, I give up. Dear God...... Dear God MAKE IT STOP. Thank you."
"I knew nothing of this movie before catching it while channel surfing. When I saw that Jennifer Coolidge and Fred Willard were in it, I was eagerly anticipating another brilliant comedy along the lines of Best in Show, or Waiting for Guffman. Jennifer, Fred - WHY did you do this? I won&#39;t elaborate on what everyone else has said about this garbage, except I must wonder: WHO was it made for? Not children, considering how many unfunny, vulgar potty jokes and sleezy sexual gags are in it. It couldn&#39;t be made for adults, since any reasonable adult would turn it off in disgust after 10 minutes. I&#39;m not easily offended and usually really like spoofs and silly, juvenile humour. I laughed my fool head off at Naked Gun, Airplane, Dumb &amp; Dumber, Hot Shots! and others in that vein, but the difference is that they&#39;re FUNNY.  I thought I had seen the worst movie ever when I watched the Wicker Man last week. Wrong! Epic Movie hits lows never before seen. In comparison, The Wicker Man is Oscar worthy, and it was a million times funnier.  If badly done, crude gags about pustule popping, testicle smashing, vomit and poo/pee make you laugh, this is the movie for you. If not, don&#39;t see it, not even for free. Whatever you do, do not pay to see this or you&#39;ll want cut your throat afterward. Ick.  Since I can&#39;t give it a minus or even zero, I give it 1*, but it doesn&#39;t deserve it."
Watching the previews for this movie I was expecting to have some good laughs. After watching the actual movie however I was extremely disappointed. 95% of the movie I didn&#39;t even have a little chuckle or a laugh. I ended up slightly laughing to some of the pathetic vulgar stuff. Even the potty humor in this movie was really really bad. ( Worse potty humor ever!) I am a pretty big fan of potty humor and immature stuff ... but what this movie had to offer was sadly disappointing with what was presented. Aside from the humor there was many rap music type scenes where the characters were participating in a lamed down style of a MTV music video... many of these scenes were unnecessary or too much and far from entertaining. They were more or less not enjoyable and far too many like them. Now to the good parts of the movie ... trust me I&#39;m trying hard to find em! Many movies were parodied and you will probably recognize most of them and there is an occasional scene where they throw characters from other movies in for the hell of it just to have them in the movie. I also liked the rap dance scene (only one i liked) where they were doing a Pirates of the Caribbean rap dance. It reminded me of Captain Dan the Hip Hop Pirate..I wonder if they were trying to parody that guy? Well folks there wasn&#39;t much more to this movie other than a waste of time and disappointment.
"I watched this movie with extremely low expectations, and I came out with even lower.  Why they allow these people to continue their atrocities is beyond me.  What happened to films like Mars Attacks, Spaceballs, and Last Action Hero when they actually made intelligent send ups of great films? Throwing a character in from one movie and having them a) fall down b) engage in a crude toilet humor or c) make a joke out of the original punch line IS NOT FUNNY Example: ---Superman getting shot in the eye and the bullet hurts him, wow incredibly hilarious ---Samuel Jackson repeatdley yelling a derivative of his infamous line from &quot;Snakes on a plane&quot; ---The appearance of Borat, that movie was already funny you idiots! ---Nacho Libre? WTF? That was already a dumb comedy, you don&#39;t make a joke about a dumb comedy! Many of these movies weren&#39;t true &#39;epics&#39;, Borat was not an epic, neither in content nor length, Snakes on a Plane is not epic (and is already a parody of B-Movies) And all the movies were from the last two years, what is that? Finally, cramming way to many references into one film is just stupid, stick with one genre/movie Only see this if you want to rant about how terrible it is"
"I was lead to believe that a parody was meant to be a work that mocked other works. Not copying the material almost identically.  I endured this movie to see if it was as bad as IMDb community said. Well, yet again, you are right.  What can I say that already hasn&#39;t been said? This movie insulted my intelligence far too many times for me to remember. The jokes where childish and foul. The plot was scarce, to say the least. And of course, it&#39;s one hour of my life I wont ever have back.  There seemed to be an abundance of ghetto themed jokes in this movie. And no doubt this will send everyone up in arms when I say, every single ghetto joke has already been done, it&#39;s just not funny anymore. It has become a rarity to find a comedy movie that is actually funny, rather than what Hollywood wants you to believe is funny.  1/10, because I can&#39;t place a vote in negative numbers."
"My class organized a big movie event for when this was in theaters. I went because some rich kid was paying for it, and, hey, free popcorn. The theater was awesome. Largest, cleanest seats I&#x27;ve ever seen. This cannot be said for the movie itself, though. Stupid, offensive jokes. Oh, and don&#x27;t see any of these movies if you&#x27;re LGB. Plenty of gay jokes in these movies. I cannot believe that all the kids, seventh graders, all laughed at every joke. It was horrible. Even worse, now they think &#x27;epic&#x27; means &#x27;a funny movie&#x27;. The movie made fun of every movie better than it. This is how the movie goes: This movie wasn&#x27;t originally hilarious and bad! Let&#x27;s stick stupid sluts and fart noises in! Now here&#x27;s a guy in a dress! There&#x27;s a fat guy! Throughout the entire movie."
"Epic Movie is a poor man&#39;s Scary Movie. The plots in the two movies are the same, and so are the characters. Epic Movie and Scary Movie poke fun at blockbuster movies from the past year or so and feature dumb (and not likable) characters. At least the Scary Movie series had a good amount of clever humor doses in it, because Epic Movie had next to nothing funny about it. I went into auditorium #9 (one of the largest at my theatre; also a complete mess to signal the target audience of Epic Movie) with high hopes. I left feeling dumber than the two of the six writers of Scary Movie series who directed this masterpiece. Then again, I can only blame myself, as the trailers looked dreadful and it was by only 1/3 of the Scary Movie team (probably the ones who took a massive pay-cut).  There are a few funny moments in Epic Movie: Borat appearing in the end was funny, as he says in broken English, &quot;Yes a-man,&quot; or whatever that funny thing he says in Borat is. Seeing him in the green thong was disturbing, but funny. Jack Sparrow (hilariously titled Jack Swallows here- please notice the sarcasm) makes an appearance, providing some funny scenes; at least the directors knew that the best part of Pirate&#39;s of the Caribbean 2: Dead Man&#39;s Chest was the wheel fighting scene, and they took advantage of that by including it in Epic Movie.  Now for the rest of the film&#133;ouch. Directors Jason Friedberg &amp; Aaron Seltzer and their team of crack heads try so hard to be funny, but the only people who should be laughing are little kids and people who are smart enough to avoid watching this movie. Barf and snot aren&#39;t funny; they are repulsive and immature beyond words. Maybe if a bored, perverted little kid directed this movie it wouldn&#39;t be so bad. But the directors here were grown men. Some examples of the genius-level humor used in Epic Movie is as follows&#133; the White Witch is now the White B!tch. A man who sucks at life grows small chicken wings on his back and makes pathetic, whining noises. Need I go on?  It really says something when the best part of the film is a fake Kazakh man and watching my friend next to me text throughout the whole movie. What was she texting about? Think about it, it&#39;s not that hard&#133;  Good) Borat (for the good 10 seconds we can here him talk) Bad) extremely immature, doesn&#39;t take advantage of the great idea, bad imitations of movie characters Recommendation) Advise your enemies to go see this movie"
"First, let me say i really enjoy the scary movie series.  That is why I am so disappointed with this movie. Me and a friend went to see it because we wanted to see a lighter film, rather than a Violent movie. We would have gotten more laughs from The Hitcher. I am not going to expand this review any longer than it needs to be. All that has needed to be said has been said. Just don&#39;t see it, it is not worth your money or time.  Also, the reason I gave it two stars instead of one is because there were a couple of occasions where they had super-model quality models in bikinis dancing around, and the girl that plays Lucy is just incredibly cute, and she made me smile, as in her the person, not the material. Yes, I know, I am shallow, but I love hot chicks."
"Now, I don&#39;t know why, but I was sooooo curious on what a travesty of film making this movie supposedly is, just if it really was THAT bad. Date Movie is possibly the worst movie that was ever made, so I was expecting a stupid movie, now it is, BUT, I have to admit that I laughed more than I did in Date Movie, but that&#39;s not much considering that Date Movie did not get one laugh from me. Epic Movie got like 4 laughs, while they were incredibly stupid and predictable jokes, I admit there were a couple parts I couldn&#39;t help but laugh too, like the Click parody and the Jack &quot;Swallows&quot; character. There were so many mistakes in this film, I think some were done intentionally though and people were kinda going crazy on them.  Four orphans go to a chocolate factory where they discover a closet, where the inside leads to the world of Gnarnia. But it&#39;s being ruled by, well, a white B-word, the land needs saving. The four orphans discover not only that they are related, but that they are destined to take over the land and save the goat like people, with some other parody characters.  Epic Movie is annoying, stupid, and immature, but I think people did jump a little too fast to just give it the most nasty review possible. I mean, come on, I think there are WORSE films, we know it. This is a movie you might just wanna open your mind too and see where it goes, like I said, it&#39;s a stupid movie that I would not be surprised if it got a couple razzie awards, but I think you might get a couple of silly laughs.  2/10"
"This review Will be almost exactly the same as my Disaster Movie review. Why do you ask? Because it is the exact same movie thy make!!! Again, everything Friedburg and Seltzer put their eyes On dies.  This time thy spoof epic films, but I think That thy don&#x27;t know what epic films are (Ben hur, Gone with the wind, Lauwense of Arabia), so thy spoof the blockbuster films of the last 2 years before 2007, Like Narnia, the da Vinci code, Pirates of the Carabien.  The actors are at best stupid, the story non existent, the humor feels like torture.  If you have seen the other movie movies, There is nothing to see here. Move along to something better."
"I recall pushing through the theater exit and thinking, &#x22;that was the worst movie I&#x27;ve ever seen.&#x22; I was a little bit confused about what had just happened, and that none of my friends seemed to share my sentiments, but I was too deep in shock to think much of it. The memory of that day quickly faded, and I was able to resume normal life thereafter...  ...Seven years later and I&#x27;m hit with a moment of deja vu. I had just seen a preview for one of the Scary Movies (2 I think?), and my mind started scanning through all the crappy films I&#x27;d ever endured. For the life of me, I could not think of this title, but I was so positive in my disgust that I began searching for it -- starting with IMDb&#x27;s list of the worst 100 movies of all time. I began at the #1 spot, passed a Paris Hilton flick along the way, and finally landed on #53, Epic Movie. THAT WAS IT.  Epic Movie! I knew the title was just as abysmal as the content!   The funny thing is, I haven&#x27;t seen any of the movies ranked lower than this. It&#x27;s officially the worst movie I&#x27;ve ever seen.   Since I&#x27;m obliged to say why it&#x27;s so bad: The jokes are distasteful for any age group, the parodies are weak, the cast literally could not be worse together, and the plot is so aggravatingly predictable and boring (from what I can remember -- I refuse to watch it again).  Congratulations to my brain&#x27;s waste management system. It erased this title clean out of my head. Two thumbs down. Would not recommend."
"Once apon a time, a film was made. I watched it once, and thought it was pretty good. Then I watched it again... It&#x27;s hilarious... until fifteen minutes into the film. Meet Lucy, Peter, Susan and Edward, four characters who find the four golden tickets to go to Willy Wonka&#x27;s chocolate factor, with jokes that are funny and well timed. It&#x27;s only until Lucy discovers Gnarnia the film just... dies.  In a nutshell, they meet a centaur, a talking beaver, and the White B***h. they fight and, well, I don&#x27;t need to go on without saying there isn&#x27;t much more plot. Unless you count throwing anything you possibly can to attempt to make a humorous film. Which kind of failed.  So really, watch the first part of the movie. Seriously. But not the rest."
"I saw this movie at a party where we watched heaps of Parodies, Vampires Suck, Superhero Movie, Scary Movie, Disaster Movie by the way, this one was by far the worst. What started out as a hilarious parody of heaps of films turned bad. Lucy from The DaVinci Code, Peter from X-men, Susan from Snakes on a Plane and Edward from Nacho Libre all get Golden Tickets to Willy Wonka&#x27;s Chocolate Factory where they are turned into food, all these scenes were funny, Lucy goes into a Wardrobe and finds to land of Gnarnia, that was the last good joke. They must now defeat the White B!#ch from her plan to destroy Gnarnia and create a Super-Continant. As i have said before a lot of the jokes fell flat, this would have to be worse than Disaster Movie, as the only thing that i enjoyed here that wasn&#x27;t present in DM was a story, all in all this film has simply 20 minutes of hilarious jokes and then 60 minutes of bad ones. This is the Worst film i have ever seen in my life."
"They should of made it rated R for containing Language, Adult content, sex with a goat, and stupidness ha ha ha ha ha. That movie is so dumb and stupid. I saw that movie in Feburay it was not nice. Willie Wonka was dumb, Mr. Tumnus was stupid, Captian Jack Swallows is crappy, Nacho Libre was silly, Samuel L Jackson was inaccurate. This movie is a stupid adventure where they go see Willie Wonka. Then Willie Wonka had an evil thought to leave the children in his factory. Then Lucey was stuck with her tongue. Mr. Tumnus girls where stupid idiot. Then I remember in the end that Borat was in the end. Borat was silly. Also is not good. Don&#39;t buy this movie you will hate it if someone likes it then I better tell them to not watch this crap. But who only did a great narrator is Roscho Lee Browne"
"My little brother rented this and gave it 2 me 2 watch with my girl friend. we just turned it off after 10min it was terrible i&#39;ve watched children&#39;s shows which i&#39;ve enjoyed more, i don&#39;t know how films like this get made? really if this can get made my dog bonnie can write a script and we can get millions from her script! i honestly enjoyed watching paint dry more than this the only thing which got a laugh from me was the imitation which were the only plus side well i say the imitation i mean the guy who played captain jack &quot;swallows&quot; he got Johny deeps performance down too a tee. I really don&#39;t know what else could be said about this really poor film other than how dare this film be made and other&#39;s get turned down!"
"If i can describe this movie with one word, it would be classic, classic disaster that is.  This movie is as bad as they get, simple as that, throughout the move i managed to force a couples of chuckles out but thats about it. the dialog is cheesy and the jokes are really corny. supposedly this movie makes fun of a variety of movies however in trying to do so it failed miserably. i really can&#39;t imagine how would anybody in his right mind find this movie remotely funny.  seriously folks, you do not want to watch this movie, in my opinion this movie is an insult to the comedy genre. its delivers absolutely nothing and is not worth the time wasted watching it. i really and honestly can&#39;t think of anything good element in this film. none."
"Right, perhaps this is the 1st time in my life I decided to post a review about a film &#39;cause this is SO awful that the film makers must be kidding us.  I fully understand that people enjoy reading things while in the toilet and some Hollywood script writers adopt the same policy, BUT this movie just goes beyond...  I really want to know WHO financed this film and most importantly WHY, as I honestly do not understand the very reason of its existence!  This film is supposed to be a parody of other films but in fact it is a parody itself. I managed to see 1/4 of the movie and WOULD NOT recommend it to my worst enemy!  A friendly advise to those planning to see this film:   a) If you ll have to pay to see it **STOP** it should be the other way around.  b) If you were given this film as a present, return it to the vendor and try swapping it over to a decent film that actually Does not insult your intelligence.  c) Do NOT let your children watch this crap; it serves no purpose what so ever"
"Before making movies like this, studios should ask a panel of the general public whether they&#39;d rather go to see this, or have the studio donate millions of dollars to worthwhile charities.  This movie has, in my opinion of course, no redeeming qualities. It is a spoof of other movies which, although not groundbreaking, at least tried to entertain above the waist. This movie is just a series of excuses for toilet humour, tired innuendo and the odd bikini clad babe. The script is plagiarised, diluted-with-sewer-water nonsense; the acting, even for this questionable cast, is plank-like at best; all in all a waste of your life and breath to watch. Not a single smirk passed my lips.  Seriously though, it is a travesty that this kind of thing still not only gets made, but gets general release, while so many other more worthy efforts go straight to DVD, or are never released at all."
"When you are getting your wallet from your pocket to pay to watch this, go to the next guy you see, pay him 500,000 monopoly money to stick his arm into your mouth, and rip out the tonsils, and throw it at your face.  What&#39;s so epic about lame jokes and lame ideas? If you still don&#39;t get how bad this is, it is a bad movie but grown up with a I.Q. of a 1 second baby.  And just so you know, I&#39;m a teenager, and I hated this. My 9 year old brother hated this. They failed at jokes like a chicken fails at flying.   I searched up the definition of epic:  -adjective Also, ep.i.cal. 1. noting or pertaining to a long poetic composition, usually centered upon a hero, in which a series of great achievements or events is narrated in elevated style: Homer&#39;s Iliad is an epic poem. 2. resembling or suggesting such poetry: an epic novel on the founding of the country. 3. heroic; majestic; impressively great: the epic events of the war. 4. of unusually great size or extent: a crime wave of epic proportions.   -noun 5. an epic poem. 6. epic poetry. 7. any composition resembling an epic. 8. something worthy to form the subject of an epic: The defense of the Alamo is an American epic. 9. (initial capital letter) Also called Old Ionic. the Greek dialect represented in the Iliad and the Odyssey, apparently Aeolic modified by Ionic.  Yeah, so not epic.  If you didn&#39;t listen to my advice above, have fun gouging your eyes out, and make the guy next to you eat it."
"Scary movie was good, and it&#39;s sequels were not that bad. But this? This is utter garbage! Now, at least scary movie had decent acting (Anna Faris) but there is not a single actor who can save this film. The jokes are stupid and totally not funny. It sure makes you laugh, but you laugh at how stupid this film is. As usual, this movies like to make fun of good films. Scary movie spoofed great horror films like Friday the 13th, A nightmare on elm street, etc. This one spoofs Charlie and the chocolate factory and some other comedies, but in a sad and extremely boring way. Do yourself a favor and skip this film. A totally worth 1/10."
Dyer just Dyer please do not waste any money on this movie its awful. Its a kids version of the scary movie films and its not even on par with them. Its tried to combine so many films/shows and make jokes out of them and the movie its self is just a joke and not a funny joke either please watch another film or save your money and go bowling or anything. I actually had not heard anything but negativism about the movie before i seen it and i had noticed on IMDb had the worse rating i have ever seen for a movie but i still went to see it and i wish i never so if your reading this now trust me don&#39;t go and see it!! DON&#39;T SEE THIS MOVIE
"This movie was so awful, and not even close to &quot;epic&quot;. The movie had like no funny things in it and anything that was even close to remotely funny was shown in the trailers and by the time we saw the movie we already knew the jokes and it wasn&#39;t funny. besides the animation sucked and some of the jokes were not at all funny, some of them looked as if they were just thrown in there to make the movie longer, for example the borate thing at the end of the movie what was that?, another example is the superman thing with peter, and what is up with the chicken wings, thats just idiotic. i mean i can not believe that this movie was made by two of the people who made scary movie i mean those movies are cool but this one sucked."
"Simply, A Million Monkeys, With a Million Typewriters In A Million Years Couldn&#39;t Produce A Worse Script Than This. It Just Wasn&#39;t Funny, Enjoyable, Interesting Or Anyway Worth The Asmission At All,,.! I Just Don&#39;t Know How People Are Getting The Green Light To Make These Movies, There&#39;s Just No Thinking Behing Them,,. We Can All See The Idea Behind Them And What They Are TRYING To Do But The Execution Is Nothing Short Of Horrific,,. So Called Spoof Films Have Just Gone So Bad That They&#39;re Actually Unwatchable, I Found This Film A Chore To Sit Through And The Best Part Of It Was Leaving The Theatre. Even With Films I Don&#39;t Like, Most Of The Time I&#39;d Say That There Were A Few Moments That Weren&#39;t Too Bad but This Time,,.."
"Like what most people have said here, this movie is bad....really, really bad. In fact, this film is down there on the level of being &quot;Jeepers Creepers&quot; bad. I&#39;m still trying to fathom how a movie could go so very wrong. This movie is bad....really, really bad.  I have always loved the spoof movies such as &quot;Airplane&quot;, &quot;Scary Movie&quot;, or &quot;Naked Gun&quot;. What made these films classic were the nonstop assault on the funny bone with continuous sight gags, wacky comments, and ridiculous situations. This movie just stumbled from the get-go and left the audience to try to find any bit of humor in any manner they could from what they were being presented on the screen. Any joke that was offered was grade school humor and was overplayed and extended to the point of being annoying. How many stupid spoof rap videos can be randomly inserted into scenes of a movie? How many times can one person get kicked between the legs? It was if the movie intended to be played by second graders in a school pageant! And even that would have been a major improvement! As for the actual acting (if you can call it that), it seems that the cast just wanted to get over with filming and collect their pay. Someone else described this movie perfectly, as being a really bad extended &quot;Saturday Night Live&quot; skit.  With that said, you can take this review as being useful or not. But I can give many recommendations as to other options for spending your admission money.  Let&#39;s pray that there will be no &quot;Epic Movie II&quot;."
"Yep it&#39;s awful. I knew we were in for some raunchy stuff, sophomoric humor, some T&amp;A, but I didn&#39;t think it could be worse. It WAS! I wasn&#39;t really prepared for urine and vomit jokes. The 12 year olds giggled a lot. Language was mildish, but unnecessary.  There were some funny bits, about five minutes total (love the portrayal of Jack Swallow(s), Fred Willard greatly icky as Also, Jennifer Coolidge awesome as the witch). Oh what they could have done with the material they had!  Sorry to say I didn&#39;t read enough reviews before we took the whole fam damily. We did enjoy hot dogs and pop corn, so that&#39;s a plus."
"I don&#x27;t even know where to start. This was most likely the dumbest movie I have ever seen. The only reason why I didn&#x27;t give it a 1, was because I felt bad for Jayma Mays and Kal Penn.  From incredibly retarded characters, bad attempts at humor and awkward parodies, to a plot that makes you want blow your own brains out so you wouldn&#x27;t have to watch it. This movie made my eyes and ears bleed. Who the hell thought of this.  To those of you who say &#x27;You need a sense of humor to find this funny&#x27;, I say you actually have to be either extremely retarded or a five-year-old who would laugh at anything. This movie is anything but epic. &#x27;Biggest waste of $20.000.000&#x27; would have been a more accurate title.  Now to look at some positive aspects. I think the end credits were pretty good. That feeling I got when the movie ended, it was like I had just survived the apocalypse. You really should avoid this movie. Don&#x27;t even rent it. Just forget this ever existed."
"I read the reviews and thought they were way too harsh for any movie, so I watched 15 or so minutes of the movie and found several things. First, I never knew a movie could have such poor scripting, plot, or humor. Second, that I would never get these wasted 15 minutes of my life back. Finally, that a movie can really be 2 out of 10 or less. I feel as if I could make a funnier spoof with no funding or professional filming/ acting. To give an idea of the lack of humor, imagine a man with severe AD/HD with a camera and script in his hands. Not only was this film hard to follow, it wasn&#x27;t worth following. I enjoy the Scary Movies very much, and find them hilarious. I had to struggle to even put forth a slight grin at one of the attempts at comedy. Please do not watch this movie."
"If you&#x27;re looking for a teaching aid to demonstrate how *not* to do almost any kind of humor in a movie, then this is perfect. This movie is virtually laugh-free.  I saw this movie when I was a young teen and I thought it was fairly entertaining&#x97;but now I realize the errors of my ways.  In fact, this movie is a piece of tripe. The gags are not just unfunny, they are incompetent. The writers/directors expect us to find it funny that they throw reference after reference in our faces, in place of original humor. It&#x27;s acceptable to use references to other movies as humor, but they obviously don&#x27;t understand that to do that you must&#x85;you must&#x85;well, let&#x27;s just say only a certain, gifted few can write comedy well.  The best thing I can say about this movie is that it&#x27;s well made."
"this is one of the worse pseudo comedies i&#39;ve seen...  one expects a lot of non sense in such a film, but expects it also to be funny...   &quot;Epic Movie&quot; completely fails that and manages to be very uninteresting to watch. not only are the &quot;comedy&quot; sketches poor, the dialogues are no better either and the persistent music (i&#39;m not a fan of this sort of music, to be honest!) scenes only contribute to make watching this film an epic work... of miserable endurance.  even if you&#39;re a fan of this sort of films, restrain from watching, as laughter is not guaranteed."
"Save yourself an hour and a quarter, this sucker hasn&#39;t even got a normal length for a movie while it is stuffed with the stupidest scenes ... When I saw they showed it in my cinema theater, I thought this movie passed some movie critics, but apparently they forgot to rate and in addition abolish this film.  I&#39;d be embarrassed if I were in this film its cast, except for captain J. Swallows. He&#39;s getting an eight for his good impression of America&#39;s hero J. Depp.  A true waste of time, you read this a lot on IMDb, but here it really makes any sense. Go rent American History X, Pulp Fiction or Der Untergang ... A small tip that can save you some wasted quality time.  Dave &amp; Noenoe"
"Epic movie was so bad that if I was paid $1000 or less I wouldn&#39;t see it again. This movie&#39;s comedy was not even funny. They tried to pull of the &quot;it&#39;s so bad it&#39;s funny&quot; feeling, but trust me...they did not even accomplish that which is not very hard to do. And as I sat there in the cinema watching this mind numbing piece of $hit I felt like I was having a near death experience. I was praying to God that the movie would finish and was on the verge of leaving the cinema. The movie was made in an extremely unprofessional manner and there is countless amounts of noticeable mistakes. Movies like &quot;Date Movie&quot; and &quot;Scary Movie 4&quot; which I both hate are pieces of gold compared to Epic Movie.  If I had to rate this movie out of 10 I would give it a 0.000000003/10"
"We went to the $2 showing of this movie. Afterwards I asked at the ticket booth if they would give me $2 if I swore I would never watch it again. They laughed. This whole movie basically abuses some big talents in small cameo roles in the hopes that stars like; Crispin Glover, David Carradine, Carmen Electra, and Jennifer Coolidge will draw a crowd. Trust me when I say the talent was wasted. The highest point in the movie is the Harry Potter spoof but that didn&#39;t take more than 3 minutes and it was over. None of the other parodies made a lasting impression on me. Most of the jokes delt with sex and beastiality on a very immature level. Who is to blame? Writers and Directors Jason Friedberg and Aaron Seltzer, they dropped the ball."
"I have never seen a movie so slow and dumb and boring than this. It dragged on and on and without generating laughs from persons of all ages that were in the theatre. All the remotely funny stuff is in the trailers. I have a warped sense of humor and like weird humor too and this did nothing for me. Just watch the trailer on IMDb and you will see it all. My fear is that some people will go just to see how bad it really is. If you feel this urge, fight it. Save the 1.5 hours of your life from being wasted and gone forever. I&#39;m at a loss at describing how bad this movie is. One can only hope a lesson is learned by the producer. That lesson being to never do this again. How embarrassing it must be for him with such universal loathing for this film."
"Im afraid to say that this film is the worst i&#39;ve seen for years, its poorly acted with too many stupid jokes and unnecessary swearing, that just leaves you with the general sarcastic &quot;ha ha, not funny&quot; feeling.   Well i must admit that some of the jokes did give my mates and i the occasional giggle, but the whole way through i just felt embarrassed to be seen watching this sort of crap! As a pretty average 15 year old, i found this film just stupid and silly, i paid a fiver of my money for this movie, and by the end, sitting at home with my cat, watching it assault its tail, was much more amusing! The actual quality of which this is filmed is appalling for a 21st century movie. I could have filmed this in my back garden for that matter! The stunts are so tacky and fake, and at one point it was blatantly obvious that they were using dummies to depict a fight scene. OK well maybe that was one of the jokes... well that was absolutely hilarious.  They say that this film was made from two of the writers of scary movie. Well that explains a lot. Scary movie itself was a hilarious film, with so many laughs and hilarious gags, but not great, and with the writers who probably let down scary movie in the first place, they let down this.  Thinking about it this movie had a chance, but that chance was ruined, my advice is to watch this only to see a really bad film!"
"This is by far one of the worst movies I have ever seen. I loved the scary movies and even date movie, but this was just plain dumb. They basically strung together a bunch of random scenes from different movies and sprinkled poop, fart, and sex jokes all over them. I tried to force a few laughs while seeing it because my friends were there with me but I just couldn&#39;t do it. As far as the acting goes..........ummm lets just say this isin&#39;t going to win any Oscars. There was absolutely no plot to it. I think that any good spoof should have a plot to it. Even if it is a silly one. These people just don&#39;t know how to make good spoofs anymore. But I am sure they are going to make more for there are always people between the age of 11 and 14 who eat this stuff up. Even though I am 12 and I hate it. So if you want to watch a half decent spoof then rent one of the scary movies, airplane   or space balls. Just as long as you steer clear of this crap."
"What a failure. Not that I expected it to be any better than awful, but I was horribly surprised to find it was to be the most humorless, pointless waste of time and it&#39;s existence provided more towards a torture device than a movie that is just plain unfunny.  OK, it parodies COMEDIES...FUNNIER than it. No, I won&#39;t even say &#39;parody&#39;, more, references ENTIRE scenes to recreating these comedies, of course emptying these scenes of any of the far funnier jokes that were in the original. How clever of them to basically rip off (NOT parody) comedies far superior to the movie itself and derive it of any of the redeeming qualities. It&#39;s just so logical too! I&#39;m not going to review this any longer, if you can&#39;t get the picture that this is a crap movie from the dire review on IMDb or indeed any review from someone with half a brain cell, then I suggest you do this, push someone over so they fall and shout tedious derogatory words and you might get an idea of the various horrific punchlines used to substitute for the lack of clever scriptwriters.  If you can&#39;t comprehend these warnings then I&#39;m sorry to say, you&#39;re incredibly low in intelligence and probably need to see a doctor. Meaning, Epic movie is just for you! For the love of god, just avoid."
"THE absolute worst film I&#39;ve ever seen. My 6 month old niece could write better jokes than the ones in Epic Movie. The funniest thing about it is the fact it&#39;s so bad! I considered walking out half way though, but felt I should stick it out as it may help me appreciate good cinema a little bit more.  In some ways I would actually say go and see it. You&#39;ll come out stunned that anyone could produce such a terrible thing and be amazed at how little acting talent the cast has. It says it all that the best actor in the whole thing was the spoof of Jack Sparrow.  The fact they didn&#39;t even manage to spoof much and ended up producing a really bad remake of Narnia sums the whole thing up. Utter rubbish. It should have gone straight to DVD and been left to rot."
"I went to go see &quot;Epic Movie&quot; with mt friends the day it came out, I was really looking to it because the commercials I had seen made the movie look really funny. When the movie was finished 2 hours later, all I could think about was how I had wasted 8 dollars. It the waste thing I had seen since &quot;High School Musical,&quot; the characters were terrible and the way they were portrayed was worse. At at lot of points in the movie I&#39;m very confident that every single person in the theater was asking themselves &quot;Why the heck am I here!?.&quot; And the last time I checked, &quot;Charlie and the Factory&quot; &quot;Click&quot; and &quot;Nacho Libra&quot; aren&#39;t epic movies that involve action and suspense."
"I wouldn&#39;t recommend this movie to my goldfish...This is coming from an avid comedy lover.. All/Any type of comedies. SO of course I watched with a totally open mind waiting to laugh, Words cannot even describe how bad this movie is... Predictable overdone overused jokes. And thats the best I can say about this movie. I think I may have gotten ONE grin out of the entire movie, it was more of an insult of my intelligence, I was ready to get up and walk out of the theater. Hollywood really needs to think more about entertainment then $$ at the box office. I think we need more Independent films to hit theaters.. real original talent.  Don&#39;t waste your money or time on it. Thats my $8.50 (movie Fees)"
"I wouldn&#39;t bother criticising this movie if I didn&#39;t usually like movies of this genre. I laughed in Scary Movie (well, in parts). I howled in all of the Austin Powers films. Blazing Saddles is one of my all-time favourite movies. But Epic Movie was bad on an epic scale. I laughed once in the entire film (perhaps due to a sugar high from the vat of coke) and although my friend and I raised the average age of movie-goers in the cinema by about 15 years, none of the kids were laughing either. With so much material to choose from, the decision to focus on The Lion the Witch and the Wardrobe for 90% of the film was misguided and oh, how it dragged. If we hadn&#39;t paid London prices for our seats, we would certainly have walked out, and frankly both regret we didn&#39;t. I want to sue for 83 minutes of my life back. Please, for my sake if not your own, do not watch this film!!!"
"This is the crappiest movie ever to be made. This was a waste of my time that I could have used to go to the toilet &#39;cause doing that is better than watching this movie. Stupid jokes, lame humor, crap actors, even crappier sets, and did I say stupid jokes. Not once in the movie did I even think about smiling. DO NOT WASTE MONEY ON THIS. Rather flush the money down the toilet. I cannot believe that any studio actually payed these people to make such a crap movie. This should have gone straight to VHS &#39;cause its to crap to go to DVD. I will actually buy myself this movie when its on DVD just to break the thing into million pieces."
"Well its a shame that you cant give this no stars. This films is absolutely awful. You can see where they are trying to make you laugh - no-one laughs and everyone cringes. I have nothing more to say apart from: DO NOT GO SEE THIS, IT IS A WASTE OF TIME AND MONEY. IT SHOULDN&#39;T OF EVEN BEEN RELEASED! I have no idea how they got the money to make it. Made from 2 of the 6 writers of Scary Movie, yeah maybe the two that had the worst sense of humour. It sucked, a lot of people walked out half way through and you can tell its bad from the very first line! If you want to go see a good film, go see Hot Fuzz! You should thank me for saving you all the time and effort. Please do not go see this film, it doesn&#39;t deserve to make money. The best bits are in the adverts, I think everyone laughed ONCE!"
"Okay so my friends wanted me to go with them to see this movie one weekend. I had already seen the previews for this movie before I even went and I thought it was going to be stupid anyway but I didn&#39;t think it was going to be THIS bad. I thought there were going to be some funny parts but there was only like one part that just made me only chuckle. It was a waste of my time and my money. I wouldn&#39;t recommend this movie to anyone, it was the dumbest movie I have ever seen and I wouldn&#39;t want to torture myself by seeing it again. I don&#39;t see how this could be a &quot;funny&quot; movie. There weren&#39;t any good parts except for maybe the Paris Hilton part (which was the one part that made me chuckle). The Willy Wonka part was disgusting, the Superman part was stupid, the Da Vinci Code was pointless, the Snakes on a Plane was extremely stupid with that guy just repeating the same line over and over, and the Pirates of the Caribbean part was not even funny and perverted (which is why I&#39;m glad I didn&#39;t go with my parents). It was all stupid/elementry school jokes basically the whole time during this movie.  Overall-It sucked more than I thought it would.  ...They said it was from 2 of the 5 makers of Scary Movie?? Yeah right it must not have been the funny ones because Scary Movie is WAYY better than this."
"Seeing that this movie was written by the 2 writers that produced that utter vile piece of crap Date Movie I knew this would not be worth seeing, coupled in with the fact that even the trailer wasn&#39;t funny.  But fortunately I got to see this for free, and used up time that was not my own to waste to see it. I did not laugh once during this movie, nor was it in the least bit entertaining, and there was no discernible plot to speak of. The jokes were lame, the attempt at spoofs was almost non existent, and it was like they were referencing movies for the sake of referencing movies with no rhyme or reason to it.  When a movie is made it is expected to entertain, this movie is tantamount to scamming the viewers who paid money into the pockets of those behind this trash and thus ripped a lot of people off."
"Have you ever been in a movie wondering how long before it would be over, but it just kept going and going?  I hate to say it, but this movie was just -plain horrible-. The idea of Epic Movie sounded funny (and could have been successful) but they failed horribly in its scripting and production.  ** The PRIMARY fault of this movie was they tried WAY too hard. Every chance they had to make some type of knock off they did, regardless of how funny it actually was. Also, there was entirely too much slapstick - like the producers though every person getting hit in some weird way would automatically make the movie more funny. **  I feel very comfortable saying that I got my money&#39;s worth from finding out that Reno 911 was getting its own movie. The previews were by far the best part of this horrid flick.  My final thoughts: If you really want to see this movie, just wait till it comes out in the discount theater (if you have them.) Or else just rent it on DVD. No reason wasting 5, 8, 10 dollars for a ticket.  Hope this helps :)"
"Mind numbingly rubbish.  I wish I had gone to watch some paint dry! Save yourselves some money and do not go to see this crap, I cannot stress how bad this is.  I am struggling to fill my minimum 10 lines of text.... Oh, idea! Rubbish, poor, refund please! At least the popcorn was good. I may sue for my cash back....  You all get the idea? This is even worse than a Ben Affleck movie.....  I then get this upon submission from IMDb!! &quot;Your comment does not contain enough lines - the minimum length for comments is 10 lines of text. Please see the guidelines. Attempts to pad the comment with junk words can result in your account being blocked from future submissions.&quot;   IMDb, it isn&#39;t padding, this excuse for entertainment really is that bad."
"The next time someone says they&#39;ll buy your ticket to see a Jason Friedberg and Aaron Seltzer movie, run away and disown this person. These two are the equivalents of Ewe Boll when it comes to &#39;comedy&#39; film making.   I&#39;d put spoiler alert on here, but there&#39;s nothing to spoil. I won&#39;t even go into the plot, I&#39;ll just say: Avoid Epic Movie.  Other than the god awful script (I mean, just awful rehash of a bunch of movies thrown together), the less than great acting and the poorly executed timing..........well, okay, this movie&#39;s got nothing. I laughed, nay, chuckled once at something that wasn&#39;t actually funny, but it hit me enough to elicit a small chuckle. I can&#39;t even remember what the bit was, but it wouldn&#39;t make SNL these days, and we all know how bad that&#39;s been the last decade.   Now, I&#39;m of the school that Date Movie was one of the worst films I&#39;ve ever seen. I still stand by that assessment and this one is actually better than that one. But, by better I mean bottom 20 and and not bottom 10 of all time. If there&#39;s something good to be taken from this it&#39;s this: if you&#39;re a young filmmaker (or going to school to be one), this gives you hope that you can get something green lighted by someone somewhere. If these two guys (who might be the worst comedy writing team since the dawn of man) can sucker people into green lighting two of the worst scripts the world has ever seen, than anyone can get their idea made into a feature length movie, even if it&#39;s near Ed Wood quality.   Some thoughts on the actors: I do admit that the Mays chick is kinda cute-ish, but I&#39;m partial to redheads. She&#39;s not fantastic in any sense, just cute-ish. Meanwhile, Kal Penn is losing his humorous touch, I think. Between this and the apparently awful Van Wilder 2 (I was spared that one, thank you Satan), I think he&#39;s just about finished, which is almost too bad, but then, how far can you go being a one trick pony? And the Campbell guy........I really just haven&#39;t gotten his appeal as an actor. He&#39;s goofy looking, he has very odd facial expressions and isn&#39;t much with the comic timing, so it&#39;s not hard to see how he&#39;s been in two of the worst &#39;comedies&#39; of the last 2 years.   Oh, and Carmen Electra does her usual slow-motion body rub that would win some AVN awards but will never do her any good in the mainstream acting world. Can&#39;t go without that, right?  If that&#39;s a spoiler, than standards are too low. See it if you must, but trust a man when he implores you that this is one of the worst movies he&#39;s ever seen. I&#39;d give it a -5 if I could....."
"This movie is a crime. I would have had more fun spending my eighty minutes eating a big bucket of rusty, scabies-ridden hospital sharps and groining myself with a crowbar. I would rather go tobogganing, nude, in a sled made from stinging nettles, down a slope constructed entirely from shards of broken glass, before crashing into a prison for elephant sex offenders and being forced, at gunpoint, to dress up as a female elephant and doused liberally with lady elephant hormones and then made to tiptoe through a tunnel filled with the randy male elephant rapists, who&#39;d had their penises replaced with flamethrowers. They ought to give out a razor-blade with every ticket."
"I&#39;m a great fan of the first three &#39;Scary Movies&#39; but Date Move was truly awful this Epic was an Epic awful movie. Not as bad as Date Movie but still bad very bad. Please no more!  Its awful its not funny only for young teens who would laugh at anything, then only if high on something like sugar. I what my money and my hour and 30 minutes back.  I could have cut my fingernails gone shopping at the supermarket or and a nice wee sleep. Picked the fluff from my bellybutton. This should be shown to prisoners but the death penalty would be less crewel. I hated it, all of it, it was total c**p."
"A K.I.S.S. (Keep it Simple Stupid) Review....  Epic movie was trying to be a big hit comedy spoof when the trailers came out for it. It&#39;s bandwagon like trailer brings people into seeing it and then eventually going, &quot;Why did I ever waste 10 Dollars on a film this awful?!&quot; The trailers were obviously supposed to bring a &#39;funny movie&#39;, but unfortunately the trailers were* the funny parts. Enough said.  Now about the movie: When I came in and saw the movie the first thought that went into my mind was.... &quot;Oooooookay, was this supposed to be funny in this part?&quot; Now mind you barely some parts were stupidly funny (As in teasing the movies they used) Most of the actors were poorly picked for the parts we god awful as well, except the man who played Captain Jack Sparrow, or rather in the movie, Captain Jack Swallows, did actually sound close to Johnny Depp. Personally I feel Carmen Elektra would do any part to make money for anything when she played Mystique since she might be close to bankruptcy, you never know.  Overall put, the movie....not funny. The movie tried to be &quot;too funny&quot; to be funny at one time. If you ever plan to see this, take my advice...don&#39;t go! Poor cheesy quality jokes, Very sick humor, A plot line that could of been good if only they would have had different writers for the movie. If you enjoy senseless jokes and talking, or just simply spoofing movies senselessly watch it. If not, then steer clear of it then just pretend you have never heard of the &quot;EPIC&quot; Movie..."
"This movie is awful, its a little less than two hours - that I will never have back in my life - a complete waste of time. Its not funny at all- the scripts tries too hard to get a laugh - any type of comedic moment feels forced. I didn&#39;t really want to see this movie but some friends did so i went along, I thought well at least it should make me laugh. I did not laugh once. I keep trying to find moments to laugh at, but everything was so over done and unbelievable that I could not find anything funny, I could only roll my eyes in disappointment. The entire theatre seemed to feel the same way, I only heard a couple of chuckles throughout the movie, and I am not even sure it was the movie they were laughing at. It seemed people were whispering about the movie - and then I heard a few chuckles. Don&#39;t waste your time by buying a ticket or by renting it when it comes out. An Epic failure. :/"
"I object to the comment that objected to the comment made by bigmacsflyingcircus from New Zealand. I agree there are different types of humour and that one&#39;s taste in humour may be different from someone else&#39;s. However, I fail to see how this comment applies to Epic Movie, seeing as it has no successful humour at all.  I liked the first two Scary Movies, sure they were crude but enjoyable nonetheless. They did have several funny moments. In Epic movie, the humour is completely forced and is not witty, surprising, clever or any of the other prerequisites for successful comedy. It is an endless sequence of ill-timed and poorly written one-liners, sight gags and unfunny depictions of other movie characters. Honestly, the script seemed like it had been written by a bunch of ten year olds during morning tea. &quot;Like, make it that, like, Harry Potter&#39;s really old, and, like, it would be real funny!&quot; &quot;Yeah, and Hermione can be like, pregnant and smoking a cigarette! Ha Ha Ha Ha!&quot; I don&#39;t think so.  Plainly, sxc bst has a serious humour deficiency. I suggest they see a humour specialist immediately, to reduce the risk of seeing other awful movies."
"Now, before I start, I really, REALLY like parodies. When done right, they&#x27;re a stellar way to get a laugh out of an audience or to get across a message.  This was definitely NOT done right. The timing was awkward, the &#x27;jokes&#x27; were juvenile and repetitive, and they only brought in their parody characters to draw in the widest audience possible using popular films at the time.  There were a few jokes I did like (mostly the puns), but all in all, it&#x27;s nor worth seeing. It&#x27;s not good enough to stand on its own, and it&#x27;s nor bad enough to get a laugh out of.   If I could go back in time and warn my younger self about how bad this &#x27;film&#x27; was, I&#x27;d absolutely do it. Since I can&#x27;t, I&#x27;ll warn y&#x27;all instead. Don&#x27;t waste your time with this- it&#x27;s not worth the discs it&#x27;s stored on, and the only &#x27;Epic&#x27; thing about it is how epically it failed at what it set out to be."
"The differences between **** like &#x22;Epic movie&#x22; in Hollywood today and the wonderful musicals of Hollywood&#x27;s golden age in the 40s is just so huge it&#x27;s indescribable. Hollywood has been taking a slow and steady decline since the 50s, but in 50 years, the total space amount fallen will be enormous! You would think that they would learn after the failures of Scary movie 2, 3, 4 and then Date movie, but NOOOOO!!! Epic movie is the most horrible, terrible, disgusting, degrading piece of **** yet!! Willy Wonka parody but hes drinking river of poo!!! Narnia parody but the sick man/goat is giving the male beaver a sloppy wet kiss (with tongues)!!! The English guy has a hot girl (not even that hot cause she&#x27;s blue) in his bed but he is wishing to change her into flabby granny arms and &#x22;junk in the trunk&#x22;!!! And there is more endless vomit and toilet humor!!! Horrible, sickening excuse for a film!!!"
"I can&#x27;t call it the worst movie ever, because to call it a movie is to give it too much credit. This movie&#x27;s so-called &#x27;jokes&#x27; are nothing more than a combination of references and outright plagiarism. Jason Friedberg and Aaron Seltzer make Ed Wood look like Orson Welles. This is a painful hour and half of jokes that were scrounged from the garbage bin from the writers of MadTV. It&#x27;s really nothing more than a series of sketches loosely strung together, making fun at all the biggest movies from 2008ish. Oh look! It&#x27;s Iron Man! Oh no, he got crushed by a cow! Because y&#x27;know, there was a cow flying around in the movie Twister...people remember Twister right? Cows flying through the air in a tornado? No? Anyone? OK, how about Batman? He has a growly voice...that&#x27;s funny right? Oh, what&#x27;s that? Saturday Night Live already did that...ummm... OK how about Beowulf making gay jokes? No? Death-metal singing chipmunks? hello? How about some Dr Phil jokes, or Amy Winehouse, y&#x27;know, &#x27;cause she liked drugs...oh, that feels really out of date? Oh right, she passed away and now it&#x27;s just uncomfortable...Michael Jackson in the trunk of a car with a monkey? Oh, right, he&#x27;s dead too. You get the idea, these jokes are like an episode of Family Guy, so topical that the pop culture jabs are horribly dated six months afterwards. This is a pathetic, horrible pile of crap and one of the worst wastes of time ever. I won&#x27;t get that time back. I will never watch another &#x27;film&#x27; from these horrible hacks. Suck a big fat one you miserable excuses for comedy writers. Do not waste your money, don&#x27;t watch it for free, pretend it never exists. Hopefully one day it will be forgotten."
"Once again, Friedberg/Seltzer have shown everyone how NOT to make a parody. This is yet another showcase of bottom barrel gags that amount to merely pointing a finger to what is popular and snickering because someone just mentioned the name. Oh so funny you guys.  Bad: Seriously, this is lazy comedy personified. Fart, sex, poop, and slapstick jokes with no punchline or even a hint of motivation to make it work. The cheapness of it all actually detracts from the little humor there is. The actors used here look just as embarrassed as I was. I mean, is break-dancing really that funny? It isn&#x27;t and the supposed parody is simply referencing other movies. They never do anything interesting with them. It&#x27;s just name dropping fads, viral videos, and movies until the audience is bleeding from a broken brain. It baffles me how two guys can not have a single funny joke in this movie? Not one.  Overall, it&#x27;s a horrible movie that belittles the very act of telling a joke. Parody films aren&#x27;t supposed to be that hard to do or even to have them be funny. All that you need is actual talent to pull it off which this movie has none and whatever talent is acquires, it takes to the back and shoots it dead."
"I find it incredible that the movies these guys crank out keep making money. Goes to show that if you play to the lowest IQ value you&#x27;ll never go broke, I guess. Friedberg and Seltzer knock out another low-brow, inane &#x22;comedy&#x22; parody with VERY little humor that could only appeal to young boys. The Zucker brothers they aren&#x27;t.  Over 49,000 IMDb users have voted on this waste of film. Broken down to its component votes, it rated highest with males under 18 (big surprise), but even they only gave it a 2.7 of 10. Oddly, the group that rated it lowest was males 18-29, and they gave it a 2.1. But across the board - male, female, age groups, inside the US or out, this movie was voted crap by all. Yet somehow, this thing still made $86,000,000 worldwide. And unless people stop paying them off for this junk, you can expect it to keep coming.  I could follow the storyline, which is why it got a 2 from me. I save my 1&#x27;s for movies you can&#x27;t even follow, like Monster a-Go Go. And it&#x27;s not like it didn&#x27;t have something going for it; the lighting was great (thank you Mr. Sun).  Otherwise, Epic Movie is a big bucket of suck."
"Lighten up people! I don&#x27;t think this film is as bad as everyone is making it out to be. Maybe it&#x27;s because the movies it was spoofing were not too good. It definitely wasn&#x27;t as bad as Date Movie.   I found it to be funny. The characters were likable. Also the acting was good. The plot was very simple, but then so was Narnia, the main movie it was spoofing. It also spoofs Willy Wonka &#x26; Pirates of the Caribbean to a lesser extent. I wouldn&#x27;t rank it with some of the great comedies, but if you have a sense of humor you&#x27;ll laugh. Give it a chance, and don&#x27;t take it seriously &#x26; you&#x27;ll enjoy it. If you&#x27;re expecting an academy award winner, keep looking."
"I give it a 5 out of 10. Even though some of the actors seem to have talent, I guess the storyline and the script and everything just wasn&#x27;t good. It really doesn&#x27;t deserve its title &#x22;Epic Movie&#x22; because well, it WAS NOT epic.. It was.. somewhat decent. On the other hand, it did give me some laughs, so I can&#x27;t say it was an entirely bad movie. It actually has humor in it, but it can also get a bit disturbing.. I suppose this movie was meant to be utterly stupid.. so you just have to be the kind of person that is able to laugh at this kind of stupid stuff, and make a fool of other movies (even if you do love the movies it makes fun of.) In conclusion, this movie kind of sucked, but it can cause a few laughs. To be honest, I WOULD watch this movie again, but only for a few bucks. This is one of those movies that I&#x27;d see again if I can either pay 3 bucks for the DVD or watch for free on something legal like Charter on Demand. If you can laugh at immaturity and forget that nothing makes sense, maybe you can live through this."
"Although Friedberg/Sletzer did a worse job with their later movie Disaster Movie this is the film that unfortunately started their success. This film is cheap, unfunny, badly acted, and annoying like all the Friedberg/Seltzer movies. The jokes are the worst part of this terrible movie. They did not ever make me laugh, and they were very annoying. The parodies often aren&#x27;t even trying to be funny. Sometimes they creep me out. If there is any dialogue that isn&#x27;t a bad joke it is bad. A lot of times things will barely make any form of sense, and will leave you feeling empty. Although it isn&#x27;t as bad as Disaster Movie it is still one of the worst films ever made.  0 stars out of 4"
"I had already seen the rating that this film has, which I was surprised by, until I watched the film for myself. In my opinion &#x27;Epic movie&#x27; isn&#x27;t funny at all, it&#x27;s very mildly entertaining, which is a generous statement. The film has no good qualities at all, badly written, stupid plot; no offence to the actors, but the acting was terrible, in their defence this is most likely how the film makers intended them to act, which clearly is an even bigger insult to the film. After I had seen the film I honestly thought &#x27;what a waste of a couple of hours!&#x27; For a person who is passionate about films it made me angry, that this film was put on television. Or even that it was made in the first place. Why did they spend so much money on all the costumes, when they didn&#x27;t bother to put the effort into the script? The film is entirely pointless and annoying. Overall I thought the film was pathetic and unoriginal."
"I mean... ITS NOT FUN AT ALL. The cast its kinda good (Crispin Glover from Back to the Future, Kal Penn from House M.D.) but this movie cannot be called EPIC MOVIE, it must be called EPIC FAILURE.  The script is awful, no good jokes, and if you laughed on the trailer, you wont in the movie, in fact you will be thinking &quot;Hey, how the heck did i laughed from that in the trailer?&quot;.  All is so repetitive and NOTHING and i mean NOTHING make sense.  Its a movie that doesn&#39;t deserves for being watched, you wont see any funny at all, its a waste of time.  If you want to see something funny maybe you can see The Naked Gun or Airplane!, those are classics. If you like cult movies maybe you can try watching The Big Lebowski, thats a really great choice, but NEVER and i mean NEVER try to see this piece of junk."
"&quot;Epic Movie&quot; is something you really need to download from the internet instead of paying any money for it. At least it had it&#39;s moments, unlike &quot;Date Movie&quot; which was a total disaster. Epic Movie&#39;s biggest problem is that it&#39;s just...not funny. Instead of making people laugh, it makes people BORED and UNCOMFORTABLED with the idea of watching this garbage.  Hopefully they stop making movie-movies. I know the film makers eventually run out of ideas and start desperately copying earlier, classic films to make money out of something, but even that is better than making these unfunny time wasters that have no particular reason for their existence.  If you have nothing, absolutely NOTHING else to do, you can watch this, but whatever you do, don&#39;t expect anything else than killing boredom and rare entertaining moments that eventually don&#39;t make you laugh. 2 out of 10 stars."
"I have counted how many laughs their are in Epic Movie and how many jokes made me sick to the stomach and these are the results;  Unfunny Jokes: 237  Funny Jokes: 8  Using these statistics, this movie should be rated 0.3%  In Epic Movie, we decided to see what the personal opinion would be of two teenage boys of the film &quot;Epic Movie&quot;. After hearing good and bad reviews of this film, we decided to watch for ourselves. Well, to be honest, the film was a mess, the jokes make no sense and are repeated at random, the only shock on the use of a midget was the midget actually agreeing to be in the movie. The 4 main characters were awfully shallow and weak minded and seemed unable to think of a joke worthy of even reflecting off in thinking of bad movies. Instead of trying to parody things, they just got the same joke from the film and copied it (This being seen mostly by the Borat ripoff character, the only word changed was Gnarnia (They didn&#39;t name this because of legal conditions, just because they couldn&#39;t think of anything to parody except the magical silent g that does not parody but just adds another letter to the word so cleverly thought up by whats his face). Some of the stuff in there was not a parody, just a scene to show stripper pirates, fawns and mutants. The nudity was pointless and stupid, their not being a use of the two women who show all in this shame fest of a movie, and many a people with horns who bear their ugly face in the movie, proving they struggled to hire real people to the roles of the people in the film.  TL;DR This movie is repetitive, non-parodicial (I made a new word in disgust), and just rips off the original movie. The film is a disguise to the public and to movie fans and makers everywhere. I rate this film 12% with a 3% laugh hit and miss rating."
"This movie was just disgusting and definitely not worth seeing. I mean, yeah, there were some very rare-repulsion-free-funny moments, but altogether,these would make 5 minutes out of an hour and a half which is the duration of the movie. And I am sure out of this you will only tolerate 10 minutes as maximum except if you are a fan of gross! So, first, if you you&#39;re ever ganna watch it you better be forced, and not just forced, it better be a life or death situation. Second, you better keep a bucket beside you if you don&#39;t want to stain the floor. Third, don&#39;t bring anyone with you so they won&#39;t hate you. Now, if you have taken all the precautions listed and maybe more, you may sit in front of yo VCR and enjoy... not!"
"I saw this movie at a friend&#39;s house when his DVD player broke (we rented this &quot;on demand&quot;), and we almost we almost turned this movie off during the Willy Wonka scene. Now I&#39;m regretting that we didn&#39;t turn it off. Sure, there are a couple funny parts but I was not old enough to see this! There are so many disgusting sexual scenes I can&#39;t even count them! Please, if you do not wish to wash your eyes, do not watch this movie!!!!! The scene with the disturbing Michael Jackson Willy Wonka and the &quot;obese Britanny Spears&quot; almost made me throw up. So again, don&#39;t see this movie if you don&#39;t want to wash your eyes, don&#39;t see this frankly disturbing movie!!!"
"i like spoofs. i went to the theater to watch it and my god it was fking cr*p. i only watched 20 minutes and i was completely bored, this movie is ridiculous i swear i am never gonna watch spoofs again not after this one.  this movie is stupid, ridiculous, full of sh*t, and probably the worst movie and spoof ever made.  this is what i have to say to the directors. &quot; you guys should have never been existed and i don&#39;t want to watch your movies till i am alive.  the parts that i hate well what i can say is a i hated every single part in the movie there is. i wasted my money and why did they make meet the Spartans. i think they made because they want to be ashamed and want to be the worst directors in history."
"Too bad there is no way to rate this zero stars. I rented this hoping for a mindless comedy that I could just watch, laugh at, and not have to think about. I got the last one of those. Really, this was a really bad re-make (not spoof....a re-make) of Narnia. Filled with excessive belches and farts that seemed to be added in post-production, because the studio was desperately trying to make the movie funny. That was my impression. In any case, those sound effects (the first time it got a chuckle, after that they were just annoying) ruined any potential- if there was any- of the script. I kept waiting for the whole movie to just end. It is really so sad that this sort of film can be produced today, and I can&#39;t imagine people even saw it in the theaters. I was also really embarrassed for all of the actors in here; seems they were given the script the morning they came onto the set and told to do their part and get out. Just an awful and depressing movie. Very sad."
"If I could rate a movie a negative number this would be the movie! This is without a doubt the stupidest piece of crap I&#39;ve ever tried to sit through. Words cannot describe just how much this movie sucks. I have seen better story lines and funnier material come out of a junior high school production. This doesn&#39;t even qualify as a movie. It&#39;s a sting of skits thrown together one after the other in an attempt to make fun of different movies. That&#39;s not the problem though, I&#39;ve seen those kind of movies before with Scary Movie(s) and others of that type. At least those movies were well written and the jokes were funny. This junk wouldn&#39;t even appeal to a 10 year old. I won&#39;t waste my time or yours by going on and on. This movie isn&#39;t worth the effort. It sure as Hell isn&#39;t worth the money to see it."
"I didn&#39;t believe a comedy could be this bad until I saw this movie. I didn&#39;t know a comedy could fail on almost every level until I saw this movie. Honestly, it&#39;s the equivalent of watching little school children repeat silly fart jokes they&#39;ve just heard; only you&#39;re watching it on the big screen.  I&#39;ve tried to like this film and see past its countless faults, but it&#39;s so bad it&#39;s impossible to even be a guilty pleasure. Even if the plot was even slightly comprehensible, the actors don&#39;t seem to know what they&#39;re doing, or where they are, or even why they&#39;ve allowed themselves to appear in such shameful trash.  There is no humour in Epic Movie; the &quot;2 out of 6 writers from Scary Movie&quot; just rely on mind-blowingly stupid, pathetic parodies to &quot;entertain us&quot;, which are nothing like the parodies in the Scary Movie franchise. Those were actually funny. It&#39;s like they&#39;ve taken the most extremely straight-forward, obvious aspects from well-known movies, added an unprecedented level of stupid childish homophobic potty humour and tried to make us laugh by showing the characters from Narnia, The Davinci Code and Charlie and the Chocolate Factor dancing to hip-hop music.  When you can&#39;t even successfully parody something that actually deserved to be made, THAT&#39;s when you have a problem.  3/10. Trust me, I&#39;m being nice."
"I&#39;ll be honest, I did not see the entire movie; I walked out after twenty minutes. At that point, I was about ready to try to choke myself to death on popcorn. It was awful. Every second that I saw was positively awful. There were absolutely no redeemable qualities whatsoever. I don&#39;t know how the writer and directors managed to produce this; you&#39;d think that halfway through they&#39;d realize they had garbage and try to do the world a favor by scrapping it. I don&#39;t know who read the script and said: &quot;wow, this could be really good. Having the faun from Narnia do a spoof on MTV&#39;s cribs? That&#39;s a terrific idea!&quot; If you haven&#39;t seen this, you are lucky. Don&#39;t. Try hard not to. I can&#39;t stress to you how awful this is. To think that someone allowed the same crew to create another abomination is borderline unthinkable. This is quite possibly the worst piece of film I have ever seen."
"I only made it about 20 minutes before giving up. In the right mood, I enjoy the sort of gross, juvenile humor these low-budget parody movies provide. Well, not this time. I was in the mood, I had snacks, and I&#39;ve seen the movies being parodied so I was all prepared for a good time...  Never have I seen so many gags fall so flat so fast. Every single joke was a complete dud. Terrible directing. Terrible writing. Terrible acting and even terrible cinematography. I spent some of those 20 minutes amusing myself by counting all the times the camera cuts off the tops of the actors&#39; heads.  Maybe they were trying for &quot;so bad it&#39;s funny&quot;, but if so, they missed."
"This movie is so lousy, but I can&#39;t say I&#39;m surprised. I&#39;m all for punning movies, as long as it&#39;s done in a way that&#39;s actually FUNNY. Unfortunately, with movies like &quot;Epic Movie,&quot; &quot;Date Movie,&quot; or Scary Movie 1, 2, 3, X&quot; that&#39;s never the case. Their jokes are either overdone, disgusting, or incredibly stupid; basically, anything BUT funny, which is pretty sad considering this is supposed to be a comedy. I really can&#39;t imagine why anyone would find those jokes funny-- the entire Willy Wonka segment is simply sickening, 3/4 of the orphan introductions are stupid rather than funny, and most of the parodies are overdone and incredibly immature. There are about four humorous scenes in this movie, and only one made me laugh out loud. That&#39;s pretty pathetic."
"Epic Movie is similar to all the other parodies that the former scary movie writers are brining to the big screen. It focuses around the Chronicles or Narnia and then parodies an unbelievable amount of films such as Xmen, Yo MTV Cribs, Pirates of the Caribbean, Davinci Code, Superman, Punked. They have also added spoofs of celebrities such as Paris Hilton, Kanye West, Flavor Flav, etc. This movie does not work on any level. It is truly not funny. The character of Harry Beaver was not funny. The Slapstick was forced and not that funny, I did not laugh, smile, snicker etc once during viewing this film. It may rank with Date Movie and Freddie got Fingered as one of the worst theatrical releases ever. Kal Penn and Fred Willard are better than this movie. The female lead is also a poor imitation of Anna Faris. Avoid this movie."
"The trailer for this movie deceived me; I actually thought it was going to be really very funny. In theory, the idea of mashing up all these movies in one &#39;Epic Movie&#39; was rather fabulous. I know that&#39;s pretty much what spoofs are all about, but some of the movies that they chose to put in &#39;Epic Movie&#39; could have made something really very special and absolutely brilliant. But, sadly, that&#39;s really not the case; it&#39;s just not funny. I laughed out loud in the cinema once and then immediately felt bad because I was the only person doing it. With the exception of two 12 year old boys in the row in front; I envy them the fact that they found it hilarious.  All this said, I got home and when I thought about all the separate little jokes and spoofs, I really did have a good laugh. I think that the &#39;setpieces&#39;, I suppose you could call them, were actually really funny out on their own - I laughed for about half an hour about Sudoku in the snow when I got home - but putting them together weakened them. It just didn&#39;t work.  Although, I have to give kudos to Darrell Hammond for his &#39;Captain Jack Swallows&#39; (how obvious was that joke going to be?). He provided my one laugh in the cinema and also did a pretty good impersonation of Jack Sparrow.  Is this movie a sign that the spoof genre needs a rest? I certainly think so."
"OK, there might have been 1 or 2 funny parts in this movie but did anybody listen to the commentary. I rented this movie and like all movies that have it I usually like listening to the commentaries, no matter who&#39;s doing them. This was not the case for this movie. I don&#39;t know what movie they were commenting about but it sure wasn&#39;t epic movie. They talked about space travel, Russians, and worm holes. Now I could only stand to watch this movie once so I may be wrong but I don&#39;t remember any space travel, Russians, or worm holes anywhere in this movie. So what&#39;s worse than making a bad movie? Making an even worse commentary for the movie."
"This is a movie that is simply waste of time and money.I had a real hard time to watch it.There are so many movies, they try to make fun off? You will keep on looking at the end to find out when is it going to be over.You keep on giving it a second chance that may be it is going to be interesting at the end....wrong....dead wrong... There are people claiming to be actor, I guess, but they simply suck. May be it is not their fault either, the plot if there is one, sucks. You are puzzled even at the end, trying to figure out what these folks were thinking when making such a movie.It is filled with vulgar/adult jokes that you have hard time watching with family."
"Caught the un-cut version DVD the other night, The audience it was shooting for is too young to view this, but any adult can&#39;t or won&#39;t be able to enjoy this mish-mash. Juvenile doesn&#39;t begin to cover how pathetic this film is. It&#39;s sort of like an old Mad magazine satire but without the humor. Most of the movies it tries to make fun of are themselves very fragile &quot;today&quot; films which have already started to &quot;date&quot; themselves. The actors! Jennifer Coolidge has a fun part as the &quot;White Bitch&quot;, Fred Willard should be embarrassed to have his name in the credits. Nothing else is of any value as entertainment. Costuming and sets are lush, but don&#39;t help.Carmen Electra has a fun part which she has fun with. Our 4 adoptees? Jayma Mays, perky and maybe a comedy star ala Goldie Hawn some day, but not yet. Kal Penn was good with what he had to work with, which is what you find on the floor of a cow pen. Think name change my friend. Faune A. Chambers needs to go back to commercials and stay there. Adam Campbell comes off as totally gay whether the script calls for it or not."
"My only excuse is that I saw this movie by accident.  If I had known that Epic Movie was from the very same people who made Date Movie, I never would have watched it.  As it is, I saw Epic Movie on satellite, for $4.99, and it was **still** a total waste of time and money.  You know how some films are so bad, they&#39;re actually fun to watch? This isn&#39;t one of those films. Epic Movie is just truly, truly awful.  The bloopers that ran during the end credits were funnier than the entire movie -- and the bloopers weren&#39;t all that funny either.  I don&#39;t know what the filmmakers (if you can actually call them that) spent their money on here -- but I&#39;m guessing that 75% of the people reading this now could make a comedy film which was in some way better than this one, given the same budget. Seriously, there&#39;s stuff on YouTube every week that&#39;s more worthwhile than this.  I&#39;m not trying to sound clever or cynical here -- I&#39;m trying to save you money, and precious time out of your lifespan. Don&#39;t see Epic Movie! You&#39;ve been warned!"
"It&#39;s hard to know where to start in reviewing a film this completely awful. This movie should disappear from all existence (and maybe take anyone who thought this would be a good idea to make a movie with them. Then something good could come of this.)   Shallow, uninspired, obvious, painfully predictable, insulting and of course, entirely unfunny are the nice things I can say about this waste of time.  Will the people who made this movie learn from this atrocity? Not likely, anyone de-evolved to the point of making this movie, may be incapable of learning from such a big mistake.  How did I get stuck watching this? Someone who insisted we watch the &quot;funny&quot; battle scene at the end of the movie. Never made it to the end, just couldn&#39;t stand it anymore."
"how far spoof movies have fallen since the airplanes, naked guns or even hot shots movies..........  i joined a video store and the first rent was free so i chose this movie - what the hell it was free....  the DVD rental shop should pay you just for removing this from their shelves, as it is a complete waste of time and money.  please do not rent this movie as it will only encourage those Hollywood numbskulls who made it to inundate us with yet more unwatchable tripe. in my opinion all copies should be withdrawn from the shelves and treated to a mass burning like they did with childs play 3 a few years ago (albeit for different reasons). in fact cp3 is like gladiator or titanic compared to this complete pants.  i don&#39;t think I&#39;ve ever seen a film where i failed to laugh (some comedies are so bad that they make you laugh, yet the only thing i laughed at was a fight scene in which you see the character (an old man) switching with a Chinese martial artist every time he went in to perform a move). that was it.  when the credits rolled it was the happiest i have been since Paris hilton got sent back to jail. in fact - how about letting her go home on the condition that she watches this movie......  well okay, i dislike her, but not that much!"
"Epic Movie, the latest installment of the &quot;spoof&quot; movies. I really didn&#39;t want to rent this, but I was talked into it (at least it wasn&#39;t my money spent on it). I sat down and watched it, and ended up asking myself &quot;Are all those stupid references to Hollywood/celebrities/music REALLY necessary?&quot; If you take those out, then Epic Movie is actually pretty funny by spoof movie standards. But those music video/MTV/whatever the hell you wanna call it references just slow the movie down, don&#39;t deliver laughs, and make me want to smack my head with my shoe.  Epic Movie is WAY better than Date Movie, and probably better than Scary Movie 4, but it falls (way) short of Scary Movie 1-3, and any other spoof movie that came before Scary Movie 4. If you want to watch it, make sure the rental is cheap."
"After seeing the commercials for days on end I decided to rent this with a lot of eagerness to see it. After about 10 min, I was wishing I hadn&#39;t wasted the $2.00... It wasn&#39;t very funny, clever, or witty like they had hoped I think. The writers tried way too hard on this, with little result of any humor. But it was OK. Nothing more. Would I watch it again? Umm, no. But it did entertain me a tiny bit for a little while. So to everyone out there thinking this is going to be a fantastically hilarious movie, think again. Its wayyyy over top with the potty humor, ridiculous really. Maybe if they were writing a script for a junior high play this would be fine but for an actual movie, uh uh, just didn&#39;t fly."
"I&#39;ve watched some pretty awful movies but this one is unwatchable. I could only get through the first half hour and then I had to turn it off. The jokes were painfully unfunny to the point where I think the writes must have been trying to make the worst comedy they could. I can&#39;t believe they found enough people to dedicate time to make the movie or even people to fund it. The only way this movie could have been worse is if it included Carrot Top, Paulie Shore, and Ben Affleck in the staring roles, but then I think I would of had to lobotomize myself to forget the horror my eyes would had endured. If you haven&#39;t seen any portion of this movie, I sincerely envy you. No one should have to endure the total crappyness of this turd."
"I don&#39;t have any authority for talk about good films, because I&#39;m only a fan with one or more dreams there, but i think that few people (And that is obvious, any movie can have few or much lovers) going to found nice &quot;Epic Movie&quot;, which is (for me) another disastrous work of commercial movies.  Im a lover of parodies, because i think is a crazy world that makes us laugh... illogical movies are my favorites sometimes (&quot;Pandemonium&quot;, &quot;Airplane!&quot;, &quot;Scary Movie&quot; and its sequels and &quot;Date Movie&quot; are my favorites). Its sad that a project that can even be glorious falls in pure nonsense , even offensive, garbage. Few laughs (The reason of some few, very few, few points) and some interest characters that can be used like a interest funny spoof of epic movies relation all that stories to make one interesting and funny one. But... this parody don&#39;t made it (&quot;Shriek&quot; is even much, much better!).  Is sad how this kind of comedy is wasted in movies like &quot;Epic Movie&quot;. Besides ... is pleasant or funny to see people urinating the whole time? ... I don&#39;t think so.  Im sorry... but don&#39;t waste your time.  *Sorry for the mistakes ... well, if there any."
"I really like spoofs and such. As lame as they can be, most of them I thoroughly enjoy. For example, Date Movie is generally considered a bad movie but I had a lot of fun when I saw it.  Epic Movie however is quite something else. It just ain&#39;t funny - never. Now that I&#39;ve seen it, I wonder why I even bothered seeing the entire movie.  There just were too many things in the movie which indicated no effort was made to produce a decent spoof. I can&#39;t go into any details here without giving away spoilers, but when you do muster the strength to see the movie you&#39;ll understand what&#39;s wrong with this movie.  I want more spoofs like Date Movie or Scary Movie. Those I could enjoy. Movie like Epic Movie, however, should be banned forever. I honestly never thought I would say such a thing about any movie, but here it is. Sorry to the folks who made this movie, but better luck next time."
"I have to be honest, I made people watch this movie and I feel bad, I somewhat liked Scary Movie, they have some funny moments, so I thought well this must have at least 1 or 2 good jokes.   I was wrong, I am so so sorry that I give money to the director and Writers of this $&#x26;%@(insert any insult you like).   They wanted to combine so many stuff and in the end they got it all wrong and there wasn&#x27;t a single joke that was good. I hope they burn the script, all the copies and the original so they wouldn&#x27;t let more people to see this movie.  Don&#x27;t see this movie, I imagine myself forced to watch it again like some kind of torture and I can&#x27;t sleep at night"
"Look, I do enjoy most stupid comedies, but Epic Movie is really pushing it. There are maybe two or three jokes in here that I laughed at, but mostly the forced, mind-numbing humour is just maddening. Do they really expect us to laugh at someone getting her tongue stuck on a lamppost? And why, why, WHY the stretched-out rap musical numbers? Not only are these scenes totally unfunny, the rap songs, judged on their own, are awful!   You were expecting something resembling a coherent story, passable acting, intelligent satire, memorable gags? Sorry. No can do. Jason Friedberg would rather play it safe with zits popping and Kal Penn eating sh!t. Crispin Glover, what the hell are you doing in this mess??   The script took less time to write than this comment. Avoid."
"The only thing that I ask, where did they find a girl who looks exactly like Anna Faris, leading lady of the &quot;Scary Movie&quot; franchise? Other than that, this is the kind of movie I tell myself I should hate, but then I can&#39;t help laughing when Lucy kicks the talking beaver, or a guy in a Jack the Ripper outfit break-dances on the green fields of Narnia, wearing a Michael Jackson mask. As usual, most of the jokes are pretty vulgar which would be okay if they were funny, which they aren&#39;t nine out of ten times. What the hell, I&#39;ll take the laughter and the tears. Also, thumbs up to Candy Walken for Jayma Mays&#39; shining red Charlie&#39;s Angels hair. Candy&#39;s the lonesome stylist who made Basinger, Lane, Moore, Theron, Diaz look so fine. Case closed."
"Well how do you say his nicely. This is a movie you watch when you have no intent to actually watch the movie. It was Disasterific. There was nothing really there at all.  I&#39;ll admit there was a couple &quot;funny&quot; parts. If you asked me though I couldn&#39;t tell you. They where not memorable like some jokes on something like scary movie. Yes scary movie is a academy award production compared to this.  If the movie was that bad you may be wondering, Why did i give it a three? because cpt. jack and some of the others look alike&#39;s where pretty dang good look a likes. That and very pathetic humour is all it&#39;s got going for it.  If you want to see it i suggest you and a group of friends rent it from blockbuster and save you all some cash and at least with your friends it will be funny when you make fun of the crappieness together!"
"Not all films need to be intelligent and thought-provoking. A bit of simple fun is a great way to relax for 90 minutes, but this film was the worst I&#39;ve ever seen. It was a like a sixth-form revue, except it had better sets. I hadn&#39;t expected great things, but it says something when the site gags get more laughs (few that they were from the audience in my cinema)than the script itself. There wasn&#39;t one original idea. After American Dreamz, I thought it couldn&#39;t get much lower, but this has ploughed depths not seen Captain Nemo visited the Centre of the Earth. When a film says that it is written by two of the six writers from Scary Movie, why does it have to be the two who wrote the lunch menus and not the ones who wrote the gags? I&#39;ve wasted money on some things in my life, very rarely on a cinema ticket, but I did this time."
"This movie is terrible! My 10 year old son wanted to go see this movie. Why? you may ask? Because this movie is making &quot;fun&quot; of children&#39;s movies. He is allowed to watch PG13 movies but not rated R movies. This movie has been inappropriately rated. It should have been RATED R! I was totally shocked at the very, very vulgar language and adult content. If this movie had been rated R, like it should have been, I would not have taken him to see it! I am shocked that these people have targeted the young market and included the garbage that is in this movie! Very poor all around. Not appropriate for PG13 audience. Do not go see this movie!"
"This was by far one of the dumbest movies ever made. When I went and saw it people started to leave 20 minutes in because of how bad it was, and it wasn&#39;t all at once more people left. I&#39;m surprised that I wasn&#39;t one of them. This movie spoofs: The Chronicles of Narnia, Charlie and the Chocolate Factory (with Johnny Depp), Pirates of the Caribbean, The DaVinci Code, and the X-men series, and Snakes on a Plane. This movie has a plot at the very beginning and even gets a few laughs out of people, but ten minutes in the plot starts to fade and become too complicated and the jokes are used so many times that they&#39;re not funny anymore. How many times can you laugh at Lucy saying exactly what Susan said, or Peter drawing stick figures by peeing in the snow. I think after seeing this I think that its finally time to stop with the spoof movies. they were funny at first and everyone loved them but there&#39;s not a lot of movies that are stupid, scary, or funny enough to scare. So just leave the good movies that come out as they are don&#39;t make stupid movies about good movies to try to either make them funny or stupid."
"hmm.... what can I say about &#39;Epic Movie&#39;? Imagine going to a concert and seeing a band you&#39;ve never heard before. They start out by covering some CRAPPY songs by other unimpressive bands... but you decide to give them a chance....surely, its bound to improve right? surely the entire concert can&#39;t be covers of crappy songs? The above scenario does not fully describe the atrocity that is &#39;Epic Movie&#39;. Imagine that same concert, except every NOTE to each song is out of tune... Imagine how you would feel if not one single note of one crappy song was played in tune, or with any type of coherency for that matter? That about nails this movie on the head. I won&#39;t bother summarizing the plot, because, as you no doubt have guessed, there is none. This movie is a collection of crappy actors, spoofing crappy (for the most part) movies for an hour and twenty minutes.... EVERY SINGLE JOKE falls flat on its face... the few laughs me and my buddies had (we downloaded the movie and watched it on our big screen via an extension cable) came from thoughts of &quot;how could this possibly make it to theaters? who OK&#39;d this material?&quot; I suddenly felt an intense desire to meet the man that said &quot;yea, thats good, lets put that in the movie&quot; to all of the garbage i witnessed.  There are wild inconsistencies. People are decapitated, thrown off airplanes, castrated, yet... fine in the next scene. While I realize this is intended (it must be, although such carelessness wouldn&#39;t surprise me considering how poorly this movie was put together), it was just plain dumb... not funny &#39;Epic Movie&#39; intrigued me because I thought it mite be one of those &quot;funny because its terrible&quot; movies.... but it wasn&#39;t... it was simply a terrible movie that wasn&#39;t the least bit funny.  When I saw &#39;Epic Movie&#39; was number one at the box office, what should have been a sense of disbelief that came over me was replaced by a sense of acceptance. When you all sit around with your friends, and say &quot;we could write a movie better than this&quot;... you are right... and i don&#39;t even know you... but ide bet the lives of my family you could do it As an American I feel slightly embarrassed this movie topped our charts even for a week or so, but if Bush is President, should i really be embarrassed by this &#39;epic&#39; catastrophe? probably not save your time, your money, your sanity, and your life by not seeing this movie if you already saw it in the theater... well... its alright, it happens to everyone once in awhile... the best thing is to just not think about it and move on worse than battlefield earth. and i thought that wasn&#39;t possible"
"I watched the trailers for this &quot;epic&quot; movie on TV and thought...hey! this looks funny! So on Friday night, I brought a couple friends to see it. When it was over I was like...WTF?! PG-13?! Are you kidding me? There were so many sexual jokes and exposure that it should have been rated R.  Also, the movie was what, 1 hour and 15 minutes long? Crazy that they would make it that short. And I told my parents that it was PG-13 and appropriate for teens, but it was completely the opposite...  One good thing though: There were some good jokes that were appropriate, but I don&#39;t want to give away any spoilers. But the ones that were funny were hilarious...but most were to sexual.   Bottom line is: Do not see this movie in theaters. Wait for it to come out on DVD. Don&#39;t waste $6.50 like me!"
"This movie should have really went for the &quot;R&quot; rating status just for at least the gross or outrageous factor it could provide. I hate when movies have so much potential but are dumbed down for the rating and core audience they seek. In general this movie follows the settings of Chronicles of Narnia with other scenes from The DaVinci Code, to Charlie and the Chocolate Factory, Nacho Libre, X-Men, and with character appearances like Jack Sparrow (Jack Swallows), a team of Storm Troopers, Stiffler&#39;s mom (she is called that once) as the &quot;White Bitch, and so on..... You&#39;d think with all of those ideas and areas to make fun of those movies, they would. But, they basically make the characters act stupid and put them in dumb situations, then out of nowhere throw in dance routines to recent rap music. It&#39;s just not worth the money you spend for a movie nowadays. Clocking in at only an hour and ten minutes, i&#39;d suggest you to rent a movie, even if you&#39;ve seen it and spend your time and money that way."
"Like previously mentioned, after seeing the preview, I thought it would be pretty good.  However, this movie didn&#39;t even make me smile once. At least with the Scary Movie franchise, there were some parts that made me laugh. How this movie got to be number 1 in the box office is amazing.  I almost was tempted to walk out of the movie (like another reviewer who did). I was tempted to ask for my money back.  I didn&#39;t find any of the jokes funny and the entire movie is just parodies (if you want to call it that), of films that came out recently.  Save your money and watch something else. If you really want to see it, wait until it comes out on video, then rent it."
"This was absolutely terrible. It&#39;s saving grace was that it barely lasted over an hour. We got into the movie ten minutes late, at 9:25, and walked out when the credits rolled at 10:24. Half of the jokes were ripped off from Austin Powers and MTV reality shows (Cribs, PUNKD) and the &quot;parodies&quot; weren&#39;t funny at all. Wow, the beaver&#39;s name is Harry Beaver, and he makes out with a faun. What a waste of time. That&#39;s an hour of my life I&#39;ll never get back. I want my $8 back. The movie also relied heavily on the fact that Kal Penn was in White Castle with the guy from American Pie. They actually show White Castle, which is where the White Bitch lives. Coincidentally, the White Bitch was played by the chick who played Stiffler&#39;s Mom. And when Penn sees her for the first time, surprise surprise, he goes, &quot;Whoa, Stiffler&#39;s Mom.&quot; Someone needs to beat up the idiots that made this disgrace to cinema everywhere"
"My friend and I scheduled to watch a movie, but since we came into the movie theater late, we decided to go along and watch Epic Movie, just because it was to a closer time in our schedule. I thought it would be funny, since I saw the preview before and it looked good. HOWEVER, I was very much disappointed, because this movie was not funny-- AT ALL. It was so horrible, that me and my friend just got up and left the theater in the middle of it. We couldn&#39;t stand another minute of it and it was such a waste of our money.  No originality on the humor whatsoever. All they did was take beautiful classical works, humiliate it and make fun of it, and I didn&#39;t even laugh at all (except maybe at the scene with the Paris Hilton thing-- I guess that was sort of funny.) But be warned everyone-- DO NOT waste your time, energy and money on this movie. It was a complete disaster."
"I can&#39;t believe they thought this movie was worth producing. It maybe the number 1 in box office, doesn&#39;t make it a good movie. Just a lot people who thought it was 21st Century&#39;s version of Airplane (type parody). Sorry, I think pop culture spoofing of other movies are generally good when its actually done with someone who actually has talent in writing funny things.   That was simply a stupid filler movie with bits for 2007. With very few bits that were funny enough to smirk. I&#39;ve seen TV original comedy movies, like example Men in White, being funnier than this train wreck of a movie. It could be just sign of me getting old, but only people generally laughing in theater was teenagers who properly haven&#39;t seen a decent comedy movie before."
"I have not walked out on a movie in over 30 years, today within 30 minutes I walked out of this trash. The only way anyone should see this movie is if they &quot;pay you&quot; and then it will not be worth your time.  The movie was nothing but some extremely poor written lines, very bad acting and yes, I know it is supposed to be a comedy and I enjoyed the other movies that joked about horror flicks. But this was just so unbelievably bad I could not take any longer.  This movie has been rated PG, but with all the poorly hidden sex ploys and irrelevant topics, it should only be played at the Cannes Festivals as a joke."
"Scary Movie 4 was actually quite enjoyable; my friend and I genuinely laughed a dozen or so times. So upon seeing the preview for Epic Movie I thought, why not? I honestly don&#39;t know who green lighted this? Then again, I guess it&#39;s been in the number one position for quite some time now so I guess the producers are thrilled. However, they have finally and forever turned me off paying good money to go and see one of these spoofs. It was dreadful. I think I laughed once! And I am NOT hard to please when it comes to movies. I generally watch any old garbage and take something from it. BE WARNED. Waste your money on this at your own peril!"
"I can&#39;t say how bad this movie is. Like someone else, I wished for a negative score for this movie. Date movie wasn&#39;t the best in the world, but it looked like it should have been nominated for an Oscar compared to this drivel. I am normally a fan of parodies, so I was incredibly interested to see this movie especially when there were 2 Johnny Depp parodies. (I love him.) Crispen Glover made an interested choice for Willie Wonka, but interesting does not make a great film. The premise was trite and overwrought. The jokes meant to be funny weren&#39;t. I would definitely like to get that time of my life back and do something entertaining like, oh, getting a root canal. Save your money and your time! Epic is an epic disaster."
"I saw this movie a few weeks ago with a friend of mine and wasted a perfectly good movie pass to see it. I should have listened to my gut instinct and waited until the movie had been properly review by qualified film critics.  This movie is &quot;crap&quot; in every sense of the word! There&#39;s really no story in this movie, so the &quot;synopsis&quot; follows four &quot;orphans&quot; as they come together, discover they&#39;re brothers and sisters, and stop the evil White B@#!$ who allegedly killed their parents. From that point on, there is no plot. It&#39;s just taking some really good movies and turning them into crap.  I would say hilarity ensues, but there was very little in this movie that was hilarious. Most of the jokes were crude, obnoxious, or gross-out. There were a few things that made me laugh, such as Mr. Tumnus&#39; crib, Captain Jack Swallows, the White Queen&#39;s turbo sled, and even adding some Imperial stormtroopers to the Queen&#39;s army. Unfortunately, these jokes aren&#39;t enough to save the movie.  It seems all spoof movies these days are about being rude and gross. The movies being spoofed are just in there as a backdrop for the movie&#39;s &quot;dumb time.&quot; Half the movies spoofed in this movie, such as Borat, Nacho Libre, Willy Wonka and Click, aren&#39;t even epics. For my final thought, I would just like to ask, &quot;Wouldn&#39;t it be great if they made a spoof movie that was actually funny?&quot;  If you have any dignity, or respect for the movies spoofed in this movie, then avoid this movie."
"This movie is a strong contender for the worst movie I have ever seen- and I&#39;ve seen a lot of bad ones. I actually enjoy bad movies as much as good ones because they are always good for a laugh; this one was sad, for the fact that it actually TRIED to be funny, whereas others are just bad on accident.  To the creators of this film and all the other spoof movies that have come before it, STOP. Spare us please. Come up with something original. The only people who ever made good spoof movies are Mel Brooks and the guys behind the Naked Gun flicks. To the people who are reading this- save your money. It&#39;s painfully bad. It&#39;s squirm-in-your-chair bad. I rarely want to leave a theater in the middle of the movie, but the thought crossed my mind about every 2 minutes with this one. Oh, and I&#39;m not exaggerating."
"For much of the movie, I could not come up with the words to express my reaction to it. Except for scene from the Wonka &quot;spoof&quot;, there was nothing in this movie that elicited a reaction. At least that scene had me groaning that they took the gross fork in the road. Then, about 3 hours into this movie, I figured out why I didn&#39;t like it. Put simply, it&#39;s just not entertaining.  Granted, I haven&#39;t even seen a few of the movies they were allegedly sending up, but I am certain that, had I seen &quot;The Chronicles of Narnia,&quot; I still wouldn&#39;t be able to figure out why what was taking place on the screen was supposed to be funny. And when the writers were on the cusp of putting together something humorous, like the age of the Harry Potter cast, they couldn&#39;t leave well enough alone, and unnecessarily went over the top.  This movie was so unentertaining that it (combined with an entire tub of popcorn) made it necessary for me to leave the theatre 10 minutes before I could have sneaked into &quot;Departed&quot;, just to cleans myself of the experience.  Don&#39;t even rent this one."
"I went to see this movie having loved SCARY MOVE, i think that DATE MOVIE is one of those &quot;so bad it&#39;s good&quot; movies, so i really love the &quot;spoof film&quot; thing. but seriously, nothing could prepare me for this thing that studios are trying to pass off as a film. there was not a single joke in the film that i haven&#39;t seen in any other comedy (bad comedy, too). and the fact that the producers looked at this film and said &quot;Yes!&quot; really means that anyone can make a film because the bar has been lowered so drastically (but is that a good thing or a bad thing?). so if you wish to actually spend your money and see this thing, go ahead but don&#39;t say nobody warned you."
"Now i&#39;m giving this a 5 because I saw this with a group of friends and it made it more fun, but if i saw this by myself, I wouldn&#39;t of given it a 5. It&#39;s not that good but I did laugh a couple times. This film definitely isn&#39;t to be taken seriously. It&#39;s good hearted fun and seeing with friends makes it even better. Don&#39;t expect a hysterical unique movie but go expecting to laugh and have fun in the process. At first i thought this movie was to be terrible, but it wasn&#39;t as bad as I thought. Epic Movie is better than Date Move, but not as good as the Scary Movie series. All I&#39;m gonna say is that if you want to enjoy this movie, see with friends, it makes the ride more fun and enjoyable. 5/10"
"Epic Movie is a horrible movie with an awful story line,a mostly horrible cast,filled with loads of awful movie references that aren&#x27;t smart or funny,there mainly just offensive,I just know how these people are aloud to keep making movies,all they do is make fun of good movies,and use those stories to make their own movies.The only actors I liked in in are Kal Penn and Jayma Mays,Jennifer Coolidge and Fred Willards roles where just disturbing,are the other actors probably didn&#x27;t have to be paid much,because their not in a lot of movies,I do like Crispin Glover in Back To The Future,but his role as Willy Wonka is disturbing,creepy and messed up,and I wish I didn&#x27;t know that guy was the same guy that played George McFly,I need that erased from my memory.It comes as no surprise that this is one of the worst movies of all time,if you didn&#x27;t like this,I would not recommend Disaster Movie.  Four people meet up at a Chocolate factory and stumble in to a wardrobe that takes them to Gnarnia,where one movie after another is parodied."
"Want to see a bunch of movies people barely cared about five years ago (seriously, even &#x22;Nacho Libre&#x22; is in the mix) get remade using cheaper actors? Me neither, but that&#x27;s the only point &#x22;Epic Movie&#x22; seems to have. Don&#x27;t expect anything creative or insightful to come out of this ordeal, it&#x27;s all pretty much as lazy and obvious as comedy can get. For the most part the supposed parody scenes are carbon copies of the source material, but sometimes the makers also take a break from flat-out theft to bring in some embarrassing bathroom humor. It&#x27;s truly a fantastic formula, you could churn out a hundred movies a year using it. Want to parody &#x22;Harry Potter&#x22;? No problem, copy some of its scenes but make one of the characters fart halfway through. Genius. There are just two things the makers (accidently) got right. Firstly, the Crispin Glover cameo (as Willy Wonka) is amazing. During the two minutes he&#x27;s on screen the movie almost becomes tolerable, I&#x27;ve never seen such blatant case of an actor being way too good for the movie he&#x27;s in. Secondly, Jayma Mays is a cute actress and brings a certain likability to her uhm, let&#x27;s be kind and call it a character. Apart from that, this movie is a real chore to sit through."
"Overall, this satire of big movies around the 2000&#x27;s (The Chronicles of Narnia ,Pirates of the Caribbean, Harry Potter ,The Da Vinci Code, Superman Returns, X-Men ) mostly The Chronicles of Narnia:The Witch and the Wardrobe, could have been a better movie if they wouldn&#x27;t put those groaning scenes.  The movie is full with old jokes trying to make them new but it&#x27;s not really working.  After all the movie can be watched a time but not twice. There were some good moments in the movie but there were destroyed by the unclever spoofing off the directors.  A movie destroyed by epic proportions."
"I saw this piece of lead-headed &#x22;entertainment&#x22; after I saw the other major Friedberg and Seltzer bomb &#x22;Disaster Movie.&#x22; And while not QUITE as bad, it is still pretty lame.  The story spoofs (well, references) &#x22;The Chronicles of Narnia&#x22; by having four orphans (played either annoyingly or blandly by the four lead actors) as they travel through a magical wardrobe locked away in Willy Wonka&#x27;s Chocolate Factory (did I really say that?) where they soon discover they must save Gnarnia from the clutches of The White Bitch. Ha....ha....HA!!  This movie is, quite simply, not funny. The movie (AHEM) spoofs James Bond, &#x22;Pirates of the Carribbean&#x22;, &#x22;Snakes on a Plane&#x22;, Paris Hilton, Harry Potter, The X-Men and also throws in references to MySpace and MTV. Could someone PLEASE TELL ME WHAT ANY OF THIS HAS TO DO WITH THE EPIC GENRE?! If you were going to spoof the epic movie, what would you choose? &#x22;Ben-Hur&#x22;? What about &#x22;Lawrence of Arabia&#x22;? Even &#x22;Chronicles&#x22; loosely fits the epic genre. Where does Paris Hilton fit into any of these films? Or for that matter, this genre? Well, she is epically stupid but I don&#x27;t think that counts.  I will be fair. The Willy Wonka parody with Crispen Glover is actually kind of funny. Reimagining Wonka as break-dancing pervert is amusing but it&#x27;s a pretty fleeting cameo.  This cast reeks of &#x22;they only did it for the money.&#x22; Fred Willard is a funny guy but is made out so ridiculously. I also find another trademark of these two hacks to be wearing pretty frigging thin. The constant references to woman&#x27;s breasts is just getting tired. What&#x27;s so funny about them anyway unless you think it&#x27;s amusing to see a blue colored Carmen Electra have her boobs inflated to three times their size. It&#x27;s more weird then it is funny.  Bottom line? If your looking for a good laugh fest, rent this piece of garbage but if even your garbage film love has standards, then let this utter disgrace pass you right by."
"To me, you can always tell from the start if a film is worth watching or not. In my mind, if the films slogan is &#x27;We know it&#x27;s big. We measured&#x27;, you can almost certainly conclude that its probably a film to miss. I was right. Anyone above the age of 14 can come to an instant deduction that it is a terrible film. The &#x27;plot&#x27; jumps around, following a group of high school children, who embark on a supposedly epic quest, making parodies of various other films along the way. However, after the first 20 minutes or so, it becomes all to clear that the film relies heavily on the frequent use of crude toilet humour, and persistent references to feces. I am all to sure that a pack of 12 year olds will think that the height of all wit has been reached in this film, and would have spent majority of the time watching the film, rolling on the floor, giggling away at the references to the male genitalia, and laughing out loud at the abundance of slapstick humour that features throughout. Luckily, the people who will &#x27;love&#x27; this film, (children aged 8-12) are those that feel you are incapable of stringing an amusing sentence together, without unleashing one of their newly discovered swear words, or making some sort vulgar reference to fart jokes. It makes me somewhat scared that if the latest crop of 8-12 year olds are so captivated by swearing and any form of slapstick and toilet humour, they fail to think of anything original and funny themselves. Is that really what the future holds for comedy? All jokes making some sort of allusion to excrement. I think you can probably guess by the &#x27;two star&#x27; rating that this is a film to miss. It, I know, it is a generous rating, but, though ashamed to admit it, I did laugh twice, partially fulfilling it&#x27;s role as a &#x27;comedy&#x27;. At least now &#x27;HMV&#x27; will know which genre to place it under, making the film all to easy to find for those 12 year olds, so eager to grasp hold a copy of possibly the worst film of the year.   E.S"
"Epic movie is one of the worst movies I have rescene this year. Wow this movie was completely unfunny and a big joke. The plot is pretty much made up and random spoofs just happen as the characters go on. I&#x27;ll admit that I found this better than disaster movie but slightly. Unlike disaster movie, this film had some quite more entertaining and funny scenes, but too much stupid garbage to be really considered any good. Though I liked the beaver spoof, the click remote, the faun character, there&#x27;s was a few others but honestly overall this movie was just painful to watch and was a mess. And the movie wasn&#x27;t even funny. The so called &#x22;jokes&#x22; were non-factors, and just missed.  I hope the players involved in this undertaking rethink their priorities and turn their lives around to benefit themselves and uplift the human condition. Otherwise they should take up a new vocation. This movie is beyond awful."
"If you fall into any of these categories: 1. Retarded 2. Deaf 3. Crosseyed 4. Have a very low sense of humor or none at all 5. Have never seen any of the movies they are supposedly spoofing 6. Higher than a kite 7. Have only seen this movie and thinks it&#39;s the pinnacle of movie making and that anything else is blasphemy.  The final option is that you fall into all of the above, or became that way after seeing the movie (excluding 5 and 7). I say this because side affects like the ones listed above have been known to happen and you should consult your nearest video store and ask for your money back or punch whomever made you watch this even if it was yourself.  I don&#39;t know how to stress this enough so I&#39;ll put it in all caps: EVERY SINGLE &quot;JOKE&quot; IN THE &quot;MOVIE&quot; WAS HORRID IN EVERY SENSE OF THE WORD. EVERY SCENE WAS FORCED BY THE &quot;ACTORS&quot; AND DID NOT MAKE FOR A PLESEANT VIEWING EXPERIENCE. AFTER EVERY SCENE YOU WILL WANT TO GO BACK THROUGH IT IN YOUR HEAD SO YOU CAN MAKE SENSE OF WHAT HAPPENED AND THINK TO YOURSELF &quot;WHAT WERE THEY THINKING, WAS THAT SUPPOSED TO BE FUNNY?&quot;. YOU WON&#39;T EVEN WANT TO MAKE FUN OF IT WITH YOUR FRIENDS BECAUSE YOU KNOW THEY WOULD HATE YOU IF YOU MADE THEM WATCH THIS PIECE OF CRAP. THERE IS NO POINT IN GOING OVER A SINGLE SCENE IN THE &quot;MOVIE&quot; BECAUSE NOTHING IS MEMORABLE AND I WOULDN&#39;T WANT YOU TO WASTE YOUR TIME ANYWAY."
"After the horrendous Date Movie, I was hesitant to put myself through Epic Movie. It looked nearly exactly what the preceding film was, had a few of the same actors, and the same writers/directors. But the more I missed it, the more I felt the dire need to see the film. And after sitting through the whole film, I almost wish I did not even bother.  If the film was merely titled &quot;Pop Culture References of 2005 and 2006&quot;, I think it would have been a lot more of an appropriate title than Epic Movie. The film lampoons not just epics like The Chronicles of Narnia (where the film finds its key references), Pirates of the Caribbean and Harry Potter, but takes jabs at the likes of the X-Men series, Borat, Snakes on a Plane, Charlie and the Chocolate Factory, The Da Vinci Code and Nacho Libre (going so far as to cast that film&#39;s supporting character H&eacute;ctor Jim&eacute;nez in a key supporting role).  But like Date Movie before it, the film does not parody the films it references as much as it directly steals right from them. Whole lines and sequences are lifted directly out of movies, and even TV shows like Saturday Night Live and Chappelle&#39;s Show. Surely either Jason Friedberg or Aaron Seltzer (the still advertised &quot;2 of the 6 writers of Scary Movie&quot;, as they have yet to prove themselves to truly be box office gold) know that the general population of people who would even give this film the time of day would have watched the films and shows these two steal directly from. Or maybe, as this film suggests, the only people who want to watch this movie are people who watch MTV, as the Cribs, Punk&#39;d and numerous music video references would seem to idealize.  I think what is most disgusting about this abomination of a film is that these two filmmakers (if we even want to refer to them as that) are plagiarizing the work of others. In the Scary Movie series (and going so far back as the work of Mel Brooks and David Zucker&#39;s earlier, non-Weinstein produced work), despite some of the films being worse than terrible, the filmmakers still attempted to give some semblance of originality to the references and parodies of films they were doing. They were simply not copying and pasting someone else&#39;s work and calling it their own. In the real world, if someone does that, they can be fired or expelled from school, and are practically blacklisted for the rest of their lives. Why is it that Friedberg and Seltzer are somehow allowed to do this criminal act? Has Fox somehow given them a pardon just for the fact of giving them some cheap profits in the Winter movie season, and a rather easily profitable Unrated DVD release? Well, Meet the Spartans comes out on DVD in a few weeks, and it looks to be on about the same page.  But it could also simply be for the fact that the jokes Friedberg and Seltzer come up with themselves are almost not funny at all. I smirked at the preppy school X-Men send-up, and a few other choice scenes, but the majority of what I could tell was original work, was not funny at all. Maybe Fox gives them a pass on stealing other people&#39;s stuff just because their own work is not funny? Or maybe they are just being duped into thinking it was original, and not copyrighted by somebody else? They must know that work is being stolen. Why else would the White Bitch character (played by Jennifer Coolidge) talk about her evil plan, only to have another character joke about how it was directly ripped nearly point for point from Superman Returns?   What I found peculiar was that for such a ridiculously written film, so many recognizable faces showed up to &quot;act&quot; in it. Coolidge, Fred Willard, Tony Cox, Crispin Glover, Carmen Electra, David Carradine and Kevin McDonald have all acted in some really funny movies, and somehow, it seems that bringing them all here might give the movie some sort of credibility in being funny. Only their acting leaves a lot to be desired. Yeah, Willard tries for a bit, but no one else seems particular enthusiastic that they are a part of this production. They look like they are waiting for their money, and then are going to run off with it.  They also seem to have put more money into sets, costumes and music too (when it is not just being taken from the top chart of 2006). I was actually rather amused by how much work went into some of these things, and how it looks like the filmmakers were given so much more money to make this movie than they were for Date Movie. Did Fox really have that much faith in them?   I digress however. I got actual laughs in the film courtesy of a completely unrecognizable Darrell Hammond as Captain Jack Swallows (a parody on Johnny Depp&#39;s Oscar-nominated Jack Sparrow). He is pound for pound, the funniest thing the movie has to offer, and nails each and every moment he has with an amount of perfection completely devoid from the rest of the production. I am unsure if Friedberg and Seltzer wrote Hammond&#39;s lines (they look more improvised than anything), but if they did, I concede that they might have some sort of talent if they get the right actor to read them off. I laughed a lot during the bloopers shown through the credits as well. It just looked funnier to screw up the terrible lines than to actually say them.  And if the bloopers are the funniest thing about this so-called comedy, I think there might be a problem. Hopefully Meet the Spartans has more originality, and less plagiarizing. Otherwise Friedberg and Seltzer should be looking at some fines to pay.  1.5/10."
"But only if you&#39;re a complete moron.  A smack in the face, a guy falling over, a girl farting really loud, and a bunch of familiar faces from various other movies that came out in 06-07.  There, now you know, don&#39;t waste your money even renting it. I did and now I regret it.  Maybe I&#39;m being too harsh on the writers... no, I&#39;m really not. I went into the experience expecting to see a mediocre slap-stick comedy with maybe a little hit-and-miss humor to it, but ended up with hate in my veins! I actually had to watch it in two sittings, it&#39;s that bad.   My friend liked some of it though, I&#39;ll say that to be fair, but he couldn&#39;t argue with ANY of my complaints either."
"First of all, don&#39;t be mislead by the first 30 minutes. I thought this was going to be a complete hit. Loved the trailer, and the begin was quite funny.  But the Gnarnia-part lasted too long, and after that there were just old movies (robin hood and stuff) that weren&#39;t as entertaining. It felt like a regular movie started after 40 minutes. And it started off as a kind of new naked gun parody.  If you&#39;re going to watch it, please take the current rating as 2.5 for the overall movie. Watch the first 30 minutes which I would rate as 9/10 and skip the rest."
"Rated PG-13 for crude and sexual humor, language and some comic violence.  I have never seen Date Movie but when Epic movie came on the movie network, I decided to watch it.I heard it was funny from my friends but I also saw it on IMDb&#39;s bottom 100 movies of all time.Does it deserve to be in the bottom 100? I think not.There are much worse movies out there.Is it good? Not really.The plot isn&#39;t very good and the film is basically one long spoof of famous films such as Borat,Chronicles of Narnia,Pirates of the Caribbean etc.There are some funny moments.Kal Penn is funny as usual.The plot of the film involves four people who come together after finding a magical ticket, only to find that Willy Wonka(or the person he&#39;s trying to be) is sadistic.So they escape and find themselves in a magical world(which resembles Narnia).They are told that they can be rulers of the land but an evil queen does not want this and she tries to kill them.Has a few laughs but overall not very good."
"Epic Movie (2007, Dir. Jason Friedberg and Aaron Seltzer)   When Edward, Peter, Lucy and Susan each follow their own path, they end up finding themselves at Willy&#39;s Chocolate factory. Walking through a wardrobe, they discover the world of Gnarnia, which is ruled by the White Bitch. Meeting up with characters such as Harry Potter and Captain Jack Swallows, the newly reunited family must team up with Also, a wise-but-horny lion to stop the army of the White Bitch.  If you&#39;ve seen &#39;Date Movie&#39; then you would pretty much know what to expect from this movie. Again like &#39;Date Movie&#39;, this movie is quite disappointing. The impersonations are fantastic to watch, especially with Darrell Hammond as a version of Captain Jack Sparrow. His voice and movements were spot on. Unfortunately, the jokes are quite disappointing. It&#39;s better if you had good knowledge of the movies and characters being spoofed, as you would find it funnier, but there are not a great amount of laughs. Some sequences are even embarrassing to watch. Enjoy anyway.  &quot;Yo Bitch! That&#39;s pretty much the plot of &#39;Superman Returns&#39;.&quot; - Bink (Tony Cox)"
Anyone here has already selected his or hers bad movie? Hold on to your butts this beats them all.  I rented this movie on beautiful Saturday thinking to watch it with my family and some friends so we can have a little fun. I started playing this movie... well so much for my beautiful day. After the first 5 minutes of the movie not so much as a smile from nobody so i thought to skip this movie a little to get to the good part. After to much forwarding trying to find something good i realized that the only good thing in this movie is the end.   You ask yourself how could a parody be so bad i mean it&#39;s supposed to be funny right? Well i think who ever made this movie mistaken the genre of the movie saying that it&#39;s comedy when in fact they should have said that it&#39;s a torture movie.  There is no fun in this movie hell until i saw this movie with my one eyes i could&#39;t even believe that such stupid and idiotic movie could be made. Good thing i didn&#39;t see this crap in a cinema that would have been the biggest torture ever.  It get&#39;s one point because i can&#39;t get this thing to score below 1.
"One of the worst films I&#39;ve ever seen, &#39;Epic Movie&#39; is the perfect example that the spoof movie franchise is dead. &#39;Airplane&#39; and the Scary Movies (with the exception of the wretched fourth installment) are the only movies I felt could successfully work as spoofs. &#39;Epic Movie&#39; like &#39;Date Movie&#39; and &#39;Not Another Teen Movie&#39; is just pure crap. There is really no other word to describe it, well maybe sh__t, but crap works. The film is 90 minutes of unbelievably mature poopy, pee-pee, penis and va-jay-jay jokes that will most likely be the best film you&#39;ve ever seen -- if you&#39;re in second grade. The movie would be tolerable if they wouldn&#39;t take a joke too far, which &#39;Epic Movie&#39; does every two minutes or so. The only really humorous scene was Mr. Tumnus&#39; home sequence which spoofed MTV Cribs. That was funny for the first minute or so of the joke, but became annoying after the five decades the joke continued into. I&#39;m warning you not to see &#39;Epic Movie&#39; with the urgency I&#39;d warn a three-year-old not to drink the liquid under the sink. It&#39;s that bad. Grade: F"
"I really think that the script went unread before production started working on this film. It is ridiculous how unfunny this movie is. It&#39;s as if the movie was directed towards 3 year olds with mental disabilities. I was impressed to see how low and senseless comedy could get. When I went into the movie theater to watch this movie, I was expecting a semi-original comedy in the likes of Scary movie....WRONG! I honestly can&#39;t describe how disappointed I was to see this piece of crap on the big screen.(and I think I&#39;m speaking for the majority of people) Not to mention how sick Date Movie made most people feel also. It looks like crap comes in pairs, just like the two writers from the Scary Movie series that decided to write this load of trash."
"The only good thing about this, are the look alike. They were very close and good, but other than that, this movie is garbage.  I didn&#39;t find it horrible until I saw Fred Willard, as Also, fighting that weird guy from Da Vinci Code. It confused me as to why they kept showing Also&#39;s stunt guy (an Asian) and switching to where you clearly see both. Completely crap. If that confused you, don&#39;t worry, just know it&#39;s crap and made the movie horrible.  I didn&#39;t laugh much at all, and it&#39;s quite stupid-funny, not humorous. This kind of movie ended to end after Scary Movie 1.  Do not waste your time with this movie, you wouldn&#39;t be missing anything if you don&#39;t see it."
"The makers of the &quot;spoof&quot; films have really lost the plot. Scary movie 1,2 &amp; 3 were funny i&#39;d say 3 the best. Then scary movie 4, date movie and epic movie are just crap. They aren&#39;t funny at all and its too deliberate the humour. And a bit too American.  Like so many films I&#39;ve seen the trailer actually is better than the film. I thought this film would have me wetting myself but it really didn&#39;t...yep i laughed at a few bits but only because i was willing for the film to be funny.  I wouldn&#39;t advise watching it its not worth the money and the humour isn&#39;t raw enough. I saw somewhere that the writers are making a superhero spoof movie now...i wonder what that&#39;s going to be like...  don&#39;t waste your time watching this."
"The guys who wrote/directed this (and the terrible Date Movie) should truly be ashamed of themselves for how terrible the movies they make are.   It&#39;s hard to believe this crap gets funding really, and I feel bad for Crispin Glover, he really is better than playing Willy Wonka in a spoof.   I can&#39;t even comment on anything that was decent about it, because there wasn&#39;t anything, the acting, dialogue, music direction, pacing all truly some of the worst I&#39;ve ever seen.   I&#39;d rather watch Manos Hands Of Fate.   Hopefully they will never make another movie."
I don&#39;t usually write reviews but I had to simply comment on this. To watch this movie is to encourage those who wrote it and frankly anyone associated with this movie should go and find themselves another job because script writing and comedy definitely isn&#39;t it. I really did try hard to like it as I encouraged a friend to watch it with me on Sky Movies but the movie just totally and utterly fails to deliver even one laugh. In the end we stuck out about 30 minutes and then gave up. I will avoid all future films by this director and script writer - this was the biggest waste of money and time I&#39;ve ever had the misfortune of sitting through. Possibly the only reason to watch this would be to see just how badly a movie can be made -otherwise avoid.
"I&#39;m all for (good) spoofs like the Leslie Nielson movies (Spy Hard, etc) or Hot Shotz, which focus around a main movie, then add little scenes referencing other movies, throughout. THIS, is not even a movie. It is a string of scenes pasted together, constantly going from one movie to the next, and TRYING to make it funny. It&#39;s not even trying to tell a story, it&#39;s just spoof for spoof&#39;s sake. I&#39;m only fifteen minutes into it, and I think they&#39;ve already tried to spoof seven or eight different movies. They try WAY TOO HARD, rather than make the spoofing more subtle, like it was meant to be. It&#39;s like they are trying to ram it down your throat and say &quot;look, it&#39;s a spoof movie so that means its automatically funny. Don&#39;t worry about a plot or even a cohesive flow to the scenes!!&quot; I am sooo forgiving when it comes to movies, but this is the most horrible piece of drivel I&#39;ve honestly seen in a long time, if ever. Please don&#39;t watch this movie."
"I know that spoof movies are always so-so. I know this one got bad ratings. But I sort of like spoof movies so I rented it anyway. When I say this movie sucked it is an insult to the word suck.  There is very little to like about this movie. I guess the sets and costumes are pretty good so the visual aspect of the spoof works. But the writing is SO bad there is no saving it. It just isn&#39;t funny.  This movie was Battlefield Earth bad. This movie was Ishtar bad. This movie was WORSE than Catwoman or Krull. Seriously, don&#39;t give it the benefit of the doubt and &quot;give it a shot&quot;. You will regret it.  It&#39;s in the IMDb bottom 100 for a reason."
"I&#39;m sorry usually I don&#39;t like writing bad reviews but this movie has p****d me off so much that I cant keep quiet. Let me start by saying that I was forced by my nut case of an ex-girlfriend to see this waste of film. It amazes me that movies like this piece of garbage get more recognition than actual movies like City of God and Amorres Perros. What drives me insane is that people were actually retarded enough to PAY MONEY and waste time watching this 1 hour and 8 minute long piece of crap which could have been spent more productively staring at a blank wall or slamming your hand with a car door.  Seriously to know that this movie was #1 in the box office and raked 19 MILLION dollars opening weekend made me die inside and made me lose hope in America. How could anybody even be compelled to watch this movie? &quot;Gee let me go waste 1 hour and 8 minutes of my life and 7 bucks to watch this s**t fest.&quot; If you found this funny it is because your brain is the size of a peanut and you need to be locked away because you are a danger to a rational society. I&#39;m disappointed in every actor or person in this movie. Im angry for all those great undiscovered writers and directors around the world that work hard dreaming of finally releasing a movie that 1,000 people might see and then watch as this movie rakes in more money than some Oscar nominated movies. Even watching the trailers made me feel dumber. &quot;Ha ha ha a Paris Hilton joke ha ha ha let me go swallow a fork.&quot; Seriously America disappointed me and the we&#39;re in bad shape if movies like this continue to succeed."
"OUCH!!! No more beating, please.... Um, did i just saw what could be the worst movie of all times? No, that&#39;s wrong, the worst movie ever is &quot;Men In White&quot; (you know, the one made for the TV). But that Epic B******T is very close.  Of course i knew there would be no acting, but i did expect some laughs. Well, wrong again there. Although i remember i smiled in one - (repeat) - one - (and in number) - 1 part of the movie. All the other parts i was really crying the money i gave at the rental shop. For some weird reason, i thanked myself many times during the movie for not going to the theaters to see it.  Actually, it&#39;s movies like these that makes us appreciate the real GOOD ones, so we should thank the producers for keep giving money to make horrible movies. They truly work for our benefit. Yeah. (Got to remember to remain serious).  OK, only one advise. For whatever you think it&#39;s holy, stay away from this one. At least a country away. Or, even better, a planet. Or a solar system. The list can easily go on and on.  (I still hurt from the beating i took........)"
I had high hopes for Epic Moview as I love parodies of movies that take themselves so seriously. We were severely disappointed at the lack of writing/acting skills in this movie. We watched as long as we were able to stomach it. Some very good actors were cast but their talents were wasted in this lame send-up. Reading some of the comments that praised this movie made me wonder if we saw the same film. Some of them sounded like studio hacks that were told to praise this piece of garbage of lose their jobs. Now THAT is funny! Do not waste your time or money in renting this. My dollar rental at the video store was a total waste. The producers of this movie must have demanded payment up front and are laughing their asses off on a beach somewhere.
"why? this is less a movie, more a film crew trying to spoof every movie ever made, epic movie is a disaster of highest proportions. the jokes aren&#39;t funny. at all. ever. i&#39;m not going to comment on plots, dialogue etc... as movies such as this aren&#39;t supposed to have any plot whatsoever but the least they could have done was make it funny.  i tried to laugh at the beginning but i just... couldn&#39;t.  some of the spoofs were meaningless, only there for the sake of it, as if they were trying to break the record for most spoofs ever in a film. this was absolutely awful the worst 2(ish) hours of my life i generally only give movies no stars if they offend me so i award one star (1 bonus star for carmen electra)"
"Dear film industry, Please blacklist Jason Friedberg, Aaron Seltzer, Rodney M. Liber, Paul Schiff, Dawn Carter, the entire cast and everyone attached to this film from doing any more work in film entertainment. These people make poor decisions, they are only motivated by greed, they have no original ideas, and they are irresponsible. I understand that targeting the lowest common denominator increases box office revenue but this film has absolutely no value and it is offensively bad. I don&#39;t understand why New Regency Pictures, Regency Enterprises, Twentieth Century-Fox Film Corporation gave the green light on this crap. Scary Movie 5 is in production and I am afraid that Abrahams/Zucker won&#39;t be able to fan the stink off of this franchise."
"It was garbage, but I think that&#39;s the point. If I could make a cheap movie like this and get over 16,000 people to watch it, then rate it on IMDb, I would do it in a heart beat.  There were some retarded parts in this, and there were some parts that made me laugh. Kal Penn made me laugh, and the actress who played Lucy made me chuckle a few times, too.  It spoofs a lot of recent blockbuster films and doesn&#39;t do a bad job with the spoofing. Just another modern day farce.  There is just a wee bit of talent in this movie (awful acting, directing, writing, etc.) but like I said, I think that&#39;s the point."
"&#39;Awful&#39; pretty much says it. I laughed 3 times... OK, maybe 4. I want my money back ... or compensation for pain and suffering.  This was supposed to be talented writing - a homage - about all the movies we have seen and which have become part of our culture. Instead it was talentless (except for Jayma Mays who played &quot;Lucy&quot; - her wide-eyed glare had me convinced she was a complete dunce) worthless and without any entertainment value. In brief, comedies are supposed to be funny. This was droll and witless. Please burn the master tape, recall all the copies and have the writers tortured in Central Hollywood by forcing them to watch &quot;The Return of the Dukes of Hazard County - the TV Show.&quot; 1/10, but only because &quot;-10&quot; is not an option.  Perhaps the worst movie ever since &quot;The Return of the Dukes: the TV Show.&quot;  Lastly, the outtakes were funnier.  -LD  ______________________________________________  my faith: http://www.angelfire.com.ny5/jbc33/"
"This movie was horrible!!!!!!!!! It was even worse than &quot;Who&#39;s Harry Crumb?&quot;. I know that it may look like a funny movie in the previews on TV, but believe me people, it&#39;s horrible &amp; it&#39;s not even funny. Just look @ the ratings that were made by the public, they prove my point. The beginning of the movie even starts out stupid &amp; each person comes from an already stupid movies that Epic movie is making fun of. This show really didn&#39;t need to go ahead &amp; make any more fun of those movies because they already did the job of that by themselves. &amp; the movie that they based it on was good &amp; I don&#39;t think that they should have made fun of it. Also, the characters in this movie were really stupid &amp; nothing in this movie was even the least bit funny. What a horrible movie it was. Honestly I think it could&#39;ve been a funny movie if they had had funnier lines, better movies to make fun of, &amp; better characters."
"Epic piece of crap.  I really don&#39;t know what to say about this movie. I have never been a fan of the whole genre of ridiculous comedy that pokes fun at all the other movies. To me, it is not creative at all. This movie in particular really stank. Nothing was really funny in it at all, and in fact, I wished I hadn&#39;t wasted the time to even load it into the player.  The only parts I found even remotely humorous were the brief (literally) appearances of &quot;Borat&quot; and a few of the Jack Sparrow gags. However this simply does not make the movie worth watching. Do not waste money. Don&#39;t even waste bandwidth downloading it.  Save your time and money. Save yourselves."
"It wouldn&#39;t surprise me if this is the WORST movie I ever seen in my whole life. This is a parody film that spoofs other movies like X-men, Da vinci code, Pirates of the Caribbean etc. Many people I know said it was bad and I thought &quot;Well, it can&#39;t be that bad&quot;.. so I watched it, which I regret.. This is the worst piece of junk I&#39;ve ever seen, everything in it is terrible, like the lame jokes (I think I had only 2-3 chuckles of the whole movie) that was just exaggerated and childish, the plot, the mixing of the films.. it was just long-drawn. I can&#39;t understand how I could stand the whole movie. Save your money and time on this one, and don&#39;t watch it. This is just trash that was made to earn money."
"When the movie is promoted with as from 2 of the 6 writers of Scary Movie, then you would expect 2/6 of the jokes, which is unfortunate because after watching 15 minutes, I couldn&#39;t find any. Oh dear, there is a difference between spoofing a movie and blatantly ripping it off. If you think the way to spoof &quot;Snakes on a Plane&quot; is to have a plane with snakes on it, then this is pretty much the level of originality to expect here. &quot;Nacho Libre&quot; - hey, a Mexican Jack-Black clone wrester in an identical costume... with nachos! Woo! No-body will ever think of that gag, right viewers? And we&#39;re only a few minutes in to the movie!!!  It&#39;s as if the directors just decided to re-film sequences of other movies and throw the odd knob or fart joke in. The movie is less than an hour and a half. One feels sure the script took less time to write. Honestly, the whole film crew should be rounded up humanely gassed after producing this pile of celluloid nausea, and every print should be burnt. The makers of the original movies should sue 7 shades of the proverbial out of this to ensure it never happens again. Try watching paint dry, it&#39;s more entertaining."
"what were they thinking when they finished writing this &quot;comedy&quot;? It was horrible in every sense of the word. The director should be shot, and the actors hanged.  Ye ye, the idea of making a film to make fun of other films seems good, but hardly original anymore, its the same crap over and over this movie tried too hard to be funny but failed miserably, hence, bottom 100 (#30). it has...one...maybe, just maybe, two &#39;funny&#39; scenes, but thats it.  The biggest waste of $15 ever, now i have to spend more money buying a rope to hang myself with ! After watching this movie you are guaranteed to walk out of the cinema/ living room saying &quot;what the Fudge was that&quot;.  Don&#39;t say you weren&#39;t warned AVOID !"
"I was talked into watching this movie today and man, I am still dazed because of how lame, pathetic and unbelievable this, I hate to say it, &#x22;movie&#x22; was. My instincts warned me that the experience would not be nice and boy were they right!   Every scene feels rushed. So rushed that the makers of this movie did not even bother to conceal equipment used (like dummies to replace untalented actors) in the film. The average viewer can spot at least fifty goofs by the end of it. The script is so poor. I wonder what on earth made the producers think it was supposed to be funny. Every time someone laughed in the theater, I died a little inside. Seriously, 4 year olds can come up with better material. Even my pals who dragged me to see this hated it and their standard for a good film is way lower than mine. They apologized to me when it was over. I did not immediately forgive them.  The visuals/special effects are dated but that doesn&#x27;t really matter as this is (emphasis)supposed(/emphasis) to be a comedy movie. No comedy here though, so you will notice how bad all the acting, effects and everything else are. All you&#x27;ll be thinking about during this movie is visiting the people responsible for this mess and slapping them silly. Not worth spending money on...not worth seeing at all. On a serious note, this movie may actually may harmful to your mental health."
"I went to see something funny, but during whole movie (half movie, cause I left after some time) I don&#39;t even laughed once. Same as other people in cinema. Complete waste of time.  I went to see something funny, but during whole movie (half movie, cause I left after some time) I don&#39;t even laughed once. Same as other people in cinema. Complete waste of time.  I went to see something funny, but during whole movie (half movie, cause I left after some time) I don&#39;t even laughed once. Same as other people in cinema. Complete waste of time.  I went to see something funny, but during whole movie (half movie, cause I left after some time) I don&#39;t even laughed once. Same as other people in cinema. Complete waste of time."
"I can safely say this is one, if not THE, worst film i have ever been unlucky enough to see.  I went to see it last week with my girlfriend and found myself apologising to her for suggesting we see it.  The film tries to spoof a couple of recent movies but fails miserably. The writers use the same poor jokes over and over again and i don&#39;t think i laughed once. I&#39;m sure that they could have thought up something a bit more original than &#39;The White B**ch&#39;.   Bottom line: Immature, poor and a waste of anybody&#39;s time. Don&#39;t even bother thinking about seeing this film."
"I have reviewed movies on IMDb.com for years, but I must say that this is the first time I have written a review myself. I cannot say that this is the worst movie I have seen, but is is up there, or should I say down there. As bad as Stealth was, it still was a lot better than this piece of garbage. It wouldn&#39;t even be so bad if I at least laughed once. How do you make a movie that is advertised as a comedy and you don&#39;t even laugh one time? I only watched this movie because I was wasting time and the movies that I wanted to see were not playing ad the movies I would have settled on were not playing at the time available to me. Needless to say, I seen this garbage and now I am compelled to warn others!! Don&#39;t even rent the DVD. In fact, if someone gives you the free DVD of this movie, spit on it and walk away. You have been warned!!!!"
"Since Scary Movie 2, these movies have gone down the toilet(even more than they already have.) THis movie in my area(S. TX), appears to be more successful than any other movie in the past few years. The theaters were full of people, it was amazing. The movie was very stupid and didn&#39;t go anywhere. The comedy was taken too far and made everything bad. The pieces did not fit together correctly. It was like a perverted Nickelodeon television show that nobody watches, DO NOT WATCH. Most of the film covered the Chronicles of Narnia, which still was a pathetic movie intended for children. It had a few funny moments but would have been better left inside of a fifth grade kid&#39;s head."
OK people I know this is a bias opinion because honestly i could not make it through this entire movie.. I had to walk out.. or fall asleep don&#39;t remember which one...  But I think that this movie might have a good thing... We have hit rock bottom. It cannot get any worse... or can it? Well the only thing I can hope is that studios start putting an end to this drivel... I respect IMDb&#39;s opinions as well as RT&#39;s because they are made up of the &quot;us&quot; You will always have basher&#39;s but for the most part you will get a genuine feeling for the overall performance of a movie. But for the love of god someone stick a fork in this abomination....
"Epic Movie was not thought out that well, they really could have done better than that. They really did drag on too long with jokes and things, that ruined it. I liked the Scary Movie movies, those were funny, the jokes did not drag on, and there were ALL 6 writers making it. I feel kind of ripped off by seeing this movie, it was just terrible.   A word to the directors, please get together with the rest of the guys from Scary Movie and make something that is worth being called EPIC. It might be more worth it to spend your money on Norbit. Hopefully people will read this and the last comment, take our advice, don&#39;t waste $10 to go see this movie"
"I got conned into seeing this movie with my friends cause &quot;I never go with them to the movies anymore&quot; and now i remember why.  Thank god it was only just over an hour long. Anything more then that and i would&#39;ve taken a combat knife to the screen. The jokes weren&#39;t funny at all, not even in the context of making a stupid spoof of something. It&#39;d be like me taking a glass of milk, dropping a stick of butter in the milk, and holding it up in front of a camera saying &quot;Look buttermilk!&quot; Then charging people to watch me say that. That&#39;s about the extent of the jokes in the movie.  My friends and I had more fun making our own jokes in the theater about how bad it was... effectively making a better spoof of a movie, then Epic Movie actually did of any movie it tried to spoof. (for any of you readers that are World of Warcraft players, there is plenty of fun to be had in good company) To make a long story short... I&#39;m confident that the only way someone could enjoy this movie is to either be high on drugs, drunk, or just that plain stupid all the time.  Awful. Simply Awful."
"I have just come out of Epic Movie. Simply put, its the worst movie I have ever seen. I have heard of people walking out of this movie, and saw it myself tonight. 12 people started in a Cinemaxx theatre, only 6 remained at the end. It was the worst, unfunniest, lamest and rehashed jokes of the last 6 months basically. This script was obviously written in an afternoon and the director should publicly be flogged and be forced to watch this crapola over and over again until his head explodes.  108 mins. Seriously, we are seriously being rorted as the public. From now on, I wont be seeing any films made by these clowns, any of the clowns in it, and anything at all to do with the production company.  P.S I feel lousy using the word clowns, at least they&#39;re freakin funny.  Worst Epic Ever"
"This movie is VERY, VERY, VERY horrible. I went to the movie after I watched the trailer. The TRAILER is funnier than the MOVIE because the trailer has almost every funny scene in it. From watching the trailer, you can predict what scenes are coming up in the movie. The movie was too clich&eacute;, and what you thought would be funny (e.g. Gnarnia) was NOT funny. I can&#39;t believe I had the will power to sit through two hours and watch the most horrible comedy in the world. This movie is a disgrace to all spoofs! People were leaving at the middle of the movie, and they weren&#39;t even paying attention to it. The theatre was FULL of people, who, by the end of the movie were gabbing on their cellphones and chatting with their friends. The beginning had a few laughs, and there were minor laughs through out the movie but I forgot to laugh. It was that funny."
"They (movie makers of this) should be made to watch this movie with eye clips so they do not blink sitting right next to a bunch of serial killers who have various weapons at their disposal.  Honestly this movie is truly awful - they spoof a few movies like Charlie &amp; Chocolate Factory &amp; Superman in the first 20 mins then decide to rip on Narnia or &quot;Gnarnia&quot; (ho ho ho) for the rest of it. Fine no problem apart from they decide to rip on it the way an 8 year old boy who finds the humour in teletubbies fascinating and first rate would.  Ironically my 27 year old cousin found this movie hilarious but then again he thought Superman 4 was a classic.  To the more adult erm...adults here I reckon they will find this movie insulting and well...basically crap but I&#39;ve just a look at the rating which clearly shows what type of age group the movie makers are going for which makes perfect sense in the end.  I take it all back, these movie producers are geniuses as they know the teenage market this movie is made for will go and watch it and laugh their ass off whilst no doubt get drunk and high on some sort of illegal substance with their &quot;babies momma&quot; and leave the cinema remembering nothing. Don&#39;t worry kids, you haven&#39;t missed anything to talk about."
"This film is so bad that it is less like watching a film and more like having a film beamed into your skull from a malign planet of crap. If I had anything to do with this film I wouldn&#39;t want my name on it, near it or even referenced in it.  This film is such a money grabbing exploit that it makes me wonder how they can get away with it. The script is non existent, there&#39;s no plot and no original gags. Bad performances and terrible music makes one thankful that it was all over in 68 minutes. All of which makes it seem like a crime they charge people to see it. They should pay us!!! The makers of this tosh add credence to my argument to bring back stockades to humiliate bad people in public. They took my money and now I want to throw rotten fruit at them. Who&#39;s with me?"
it sucked don&#39;t see this terrible movie do not see this BAD BAD BAD it sucked don&#39;t see this terrible movie do not see this BAD BAD BADit sucked don&#39;t see this terrible movie do not see this BAD BAD BADit sucked don&#39;t see this terrible movie do not see this BAD BAD BADit sucked don&#39;t see this terrible movie do not see this BAD BAD BAD it sucked don&#39;t see this terrible movie do not see this BAD BAD BADit sucked don&#39;t see this terrible movie do not see this BAD BAD BADit sucked don&#39;t see this terrible movie do not see this BAD BAD BADit sucked don&#39;t see this terrible movie do not see this BAD BAD BADit sucked don&#39;t see this terrible movie do not see this BAD BAD BADit sucked don&#39;t see this terrible movie do not see this BAD BAD BADit sucked don&#39;t see this terrible movie do not see this BAD BAD BADit sucked don&#39;t see this terrible movie do not see this BAD BAD BADit sucked don&#39;t see this terrible movie do not see this BAD BAD BADit sucked don&#39;t see this terrible movie do not see this BAD BAD BADit sucked don&#39;t see this terrible movie do not see this BAD BAD BADit sucked don&#39;t see this terrible movie do not see this BAD BAD BADit sucked don&#39;t see this terrible movie do not see this BAD BAD BADit sucked don&#39;t see this terrible movie do not see this BAD BAD BADit sucked don&#39;t see this terrible movie do not see this BAD BAD BADit sucked don&#39;t see this terrible movie do not see this BAD BAD BADit sucked don&#39;t see this terrible movie do not see this BAD BAD BADit sucked don&#39;t see this terrible movie do not see this BAD BAD BADit sucked don&#39;t see this terrible movie do not see this BAD BAD BAD
"I have never posted comments on websites about movies. I just saw the movie, came back, and registered on IMDb to post about it. That&#39;s how bad this movie was. I&#39;m a fair person and gave the movie a fair chance instead of walking out like I should have. The movie spoofs were drawn out way too far, most of the jokes weren&#39;t funny and half of them were irrelevant. Also, I saw the boom mic a total of 5 times throughout the movie; you&#39;d think if it was meant to be seen, they would&#39;ve drawn attention to it. Don&#39;t get me wrong, I chuckled maybe a grand total of 3 times, but that was being generous. Plenty of the people in the theater were laughing, but they were all children. If you&#39;re wondering whether or not to see this movie, wait a few months and pick it up out of the $1.99 DVD bin at Walmart. Overall, it was an 86 minute lesson on how not to make a funny movie."
"This movie to me was such a waste of talent and money from people paying to watch films. I had to make myself stay to the end. While everyone around me was laughing their heads off, I was mostly annoyed. Of course, most of the people watching the same time as myself were Jr. High age or down. Napoleon Dynamite was better than this one and I hated that movie. I would recommend to anyone wanting to watch this, to wait and rent it because it is not worth the admission price at a theater. Overrated according to the comments I have heard about this movie. Younger people seem to like it but as I said they are Jr High age or younger."
"It&#39;s not very often one has the opportunity to rate a movie as low as this one. But this movie seems to have something special that few movies can boast: very low quality. The original concept of the lampooning of real epic movies is a good concept, and the potential satire in this type of project is, or should be, a gold mine. Historically, these types of movies have been reasonably successful, and most of them rate at least a 5 on a scale of 1 to 10. But the uniqueness of this effort allows it a rating that only few producers can have nightmares about.  Some of the adolescent, and pre-adolescent audiences may find this story, and all of it&#39;s gags, to be funny. But not enough to make it successful. For most adults, however, this film probably misses the mark by a mile. With all of the gags being hinged together so loosely, and with no credibility or sensibility attached to pull them off, one can only hope the movie ends as soon as possible. In comparison, the first few installments of Scary Movie were funny, proving that the concept and format has a chance. But unless you have about an 8 year old mentality, and then are willing to let anything pass for entertainment, you may think twice about paying to see it. This gross, and raunchy type of humor is for children who get their parent&#39;s okay to watch it.  Unfortunately, the theatrical trailer is better than the overall production. There should be a warning for those kinds of things."
"Ohkay, so it&#39;s not the best movie in the world.  But it&#39;s worth seeing.  I personally thought that parts of it were hilarious.  And Jayma Mays (Lucy) was amazing.  She&#39;s gorgeous and she played the part very well.  She&#39;s so unbelievably funny.  But overall. The movie kind of sucked. But I&#39;d still see it again.  It might not be a 5 star kind of movie, but it&#39;s ripping the box office up.  Doesn&#39;t that say something?"
"This movie should of had a refund policy if you weren&#39;t satisfied.I thought Super Troopers was the worst movie I had seen to date,but this movie is just as horrible.I would of rather had my chest waxed (see 40 year old Virgin) then sit through this garbage.The only part I liked slightly was the beaver.Bad actors,bad jokes,bad script equals BAD MOOD.To my defense I was drugged and put into my friends trunk and knowing what I know now I wish they would have left me in the trunk until the movie was over.I could tell by the previews that this movie would suck.What was with all the rapping?Was this made by the Wayan Brothers because it sucked as bad as one of their movies.I&#39;m just wondering who was the idiot who paid to make this turd.The one good thing about turds is that you can flush them down the toilet and this is where Epic Movie finds it&#39;s place."
When you almost fall asleep during a movie during the afternoon it says a lot. All the jokes have been done hundreds of times before already and usually much better. It makes Little man seem like a masterpiece (and that was a terrible movie too). Thank god it lasted only 70 minutes because there&#39;s only so much bad taste a human can take. I find it unbelievable that anyone would dare to sign his name to this piece of crap and that there is a studio who would dare to distribute such utter filth just to make a few bucks. It&#39;s a new low for Hollywood after an already disastrous year in 2006 but I guess so long as stupid people can be separated from their money with so little effort we&#39;re in for an even worse year now.
"This movie started out kind of funny but then it got really dull and boring. I know these movies aren&#39;t supposed to have great scenes with great acting and directing, but you are not supposed to be bored. I for one was bored. This movie is definitely worse than any 4 of the scary movie, movies by far. It has some funny parts, but they are few and far between. The acting was actually fairly decent, but that can only take you so far. Plus, any 3 year old could have made up the ideas themselves.Iwould not suggest anybody to see this, because the ideas are like a home made movie you could see in something like you tube. Do not waste your time."
"This movie is a bunch of scenes from epic (and some non-epic) recent (and some non-recent) films, redone with no acting talent, no scriptwriting talent, bad visual effects (look, it&#39;s the stunt man!) and no budget. It&#39;s just about as good as seeing a bunch of drunk people reenacting their favorite scenes at a party. No, on second thought, the above mentioned scenario would be more inspiring and fun.  I was excited about this movie. It wasn&#39;t funny. It wasn&#39;t inspired. It wasn&#39;t even fun to watch. Just go rent all the original movies on DVD and you will be satisfied. Save yourself the pain of seeing this clumsily thrown-together plagiarized nonsense."
"This movie was so bad it made my skin crawl. I beg anyone with any intelligence, don&#39;t see it. Just look at all the other reviews! The only reviews that are good are ones made by 13 year old boys!!! This speaks volumes!!! This movie is stupid, gross, vulgar, tedious and possibley the worst movie I have ever scene! This is obviously the attempt of some sorry and in debt people trying to make money off of the recent success of Scary Movie and the more recent Date Movie. Date Movie sucked, but this movie is far worse. The jokes that where made where stupid, and offensive. The characters included Goat-Pimps and a handful of pedophiles. Still sound fun? Have at it you sorry fools!!!"
"Sorry but why would you do this? Why would you make a film mocking some of the most popular, loved, critically acclaimed and money- making films in this p1ss- soaked cesspit of time- wasting cr ap- the fact that it even dares to call itself a movie is astounding.  I honestly don&#39;t know what they were thinking, perhaps they were high at the time because this is neither funny nor worthwhile, just forget it and pretend it never existed- it&#39;s the first movie I&#39;ve ever seen where half the people left before the end.  (p.s. why does Kal Penn, who was great in 24 season 6, Harold and Kumar, and Van Wilder sign himself up for such rubbish as this and Van Wilder 2?)"
"To be honest, I only went to see Epic Movie because my fianc&eacute;e wanted to see it. I went in expecting very little, and the movie didn&#39;t even deliver that much. Throughout the entire movie there are only a few scattered chuckles, and not a single real laugh. You really know that a movie like this has failed when its parody of another movie (an action movie!) is less funny than the original. This happens in its parody of Snakes on a Plane, which is really just a very silly reenactment of some of the funnier parts of SoaP.  While severely deficient in the humor department, the movie is, however, filled with plenty of gross-out moments, so if you&#39;re into that, by all means go. But if you want to see a decent movie or if you even want to laugh at a silly movie, you should avoid this like the plague. Don&#39;t spend $8 on a movie ticket, don&#39;t rent it, don&#39;t even watch it for free. You&#39;ll just be wasting your time."
"I was hoping this would be funny like the Scary movies. It was a bore from start to finish with only a few chuckles along the way. Unlike some of the other parody movies this one losses it&#39;s way fast. The few humorous moments it does provide are when they poke fun at other movies. There just was not enough of this in Epic Movie. Instead it seems to get tied up in The Lion, The Witch and The Wardrobe storyline. This gets old and boring real fast. I must say that the theater was packed with 14 year old kids who seemed to enjoy it. Don&#39;t waist your money to even rent this piece of crap when it gets on DVD. I would predict that will be sometime next week."
"Lets start out by saying I&#39;ve watched over 500 movies and I rarely give 1 star to movies. This has to be the 2nd worst movie I&#39;ve watched.  Now don&#39;t get me wrong; I enjoyed watching the &quot;Movies&quot; such as the Scary Movie series and some other ones. But this has two funny parts in the movie (mild funny), that&#39;s less time then a commercial. The two funny parts were about The Da Vinci Code and about 50 cent. This movie also contains a bunch of vulgar humor which isn&#39;t funny but plain dum.  Final words: This move is cheap &amp; stupid.  Rating: -Overall: 1/10   -Soundtrack: 0/10   -Special Effects (2007): 1/10  -Plot: 1/10   -Dialogue: 1/10   -Acting: 1/10   -Humor/Comedy: 2/10 --For the 2 1-minute parts.  -Memorable: 7/10 --I remember it as one of the worst movies I ever watched.  -Ending: 2/10   -Anything Special/Unique? Well its one the worst movies ever made.  -Worth Watching? Unless you want to see a really good example of an Epic Failure then you will just waste your time watching it."
"I really tuned into this just to see Kal Penn (Harold &amp; Kumar Go to White Castle). Boy! This was just about one of the stupidest movies I have ever seen.  Jennifer Coolidge from &quot;Joey&quot; was just about the only thing worth seeing here, although Penn wasn&#39;t too bad. And, Darrell Hammond did make a fairly good Captain Jack.  It was almost like &quot;Anybody not doing anything this weekend I&#39;ve got a gig for you.&quot;   If you want to see how a spoof should be done, then watch Mel Brook&#39;s History of the World, Part I."
"Why? Why do these guys keep writing this junk? And why do producers keep giving them green lights? This movie wasn&#39;t so much bad as it was just not funny.  Simply put, these writers do not know how to parody movies, they only make references. There are no reinterpretations, clever observations, or even quality mocking of any of the referenced movies...just references. A few generic sight gags are thrown in, which could have worked equally well (or better) in any movie, without a reference.  Of all choices for an &quot;epic movie,&quot; this film focuses mostly on The Chronicles of Narnia...a somewhat lackluster movie to begin with, and glosses over much more worthy candidates such as Harry potter, X-men, or even Willy Wonka.  While the actors seem competent, and the cinematography isn&#39;t bad, (the sets and costumes are right on), it&#39;s all wasted. I wouldn&#39;t be so hard on this movie, if not for the fact that the writers show no signs of stopping or improving. Date movie was just as bad, and the &quot;Scary movie&quot;s aren&#39;t that good either.  Please, Hollywood, please remember the good parody films like Airplane, Top Secret, and Hot Shots, and leave crap like Epic Movie to the internet."
"As movie parodies go, &quot;Epic Movie&quot; is an aggressively unfunny hodgepodge of such recent movie blockbusters as &quot;The Chronicles of Narnia,&quot; &quot;Charlie and the Chocolate Factory,&quot; &quot;The Da Vinci Code,&quot; &quot;Pirates of the Caribbean,&quot; &quot;X-Men&quot; and even &quot;Snakes on a Plane&quot; (despite its decidedly &quot;un-epic&quot; nature), most of them not really worth mimicking in the first place. The makers of the &quot;Lord of the Rings&quot; trilogy and &quot;King Kong&quot; must be counting their blessings that their respective works were, for some unaccountable reason, deemed unworthy for inclusion in the epic movie canon.  &quot;Epic Movie&quot; lacks even the sporadic laughs of its &quot;Scary Movie&quot; predecessors, with each and every joke and sight gag contained herein landing with a resounding thud the moment it arrives on screen. At least those who made the film were somehow able to resist the temptation of including what would have been the ten millionth &quot;Brokeback Mountain&quot; parody in their repertoire. Let&#39;s at least give credit where credit is due."
"There is a difference between a parody and an imitation. Parodies are to imitate (a composition, author, etc.) for purposes of ridicule or satire (dictionary.com). Imitations are to make a copy of; reproduce closely (dictionary.com).  All-be-it mostly unfunny, Saturday Night Live is still best at doing satirical parodies. They know how to take the situational or character flaws of a celebrity or news figure and exploit them to the point of enjoyment. (There are many gems coming out of the SNL camp, like new heroes characters and Andy Samburg&#39;s digital shorts).  An imitation will use an original as a template, or if extremely lazy completely just rip off the source material. Since we&#39;re contrasting imitations with parodies, imitations in this case usually put a twist to the source. For example, Mr. Tumnus in Epic Movie is played by the actor who brought life to Nacho Libre&#39;s tag partner/ Napoleon Dynamyte&#39;s friend Pedro. In order to make the character funny, they just made him look really weird, essentially he played the exact same character of Mr. Tumnus in Narnia- the first time.  Epic movie also put a FULL 5 minute imitation of MTV cribs. Yes their observations on rappers and scarface were true, but it was funny the first 4 years of my life I saw it on SNL, Mad TV, any other show that actually takes itself seriously in the form of Cribs.  Epic movie also put a FULL 4 minute imitation of the Chronicles of Narnia song that came out --( notice my imitation of paragraphs)------ oh I don&#39;t know, over 1 year ago? The Chronic-What-cles of Narnia is technically a comedic parody in itself: it parodies hard rap and nerds that really want to see an epic movie like Narnia. RULE: Never Ever Make A Parody of a Parody. It was virtually the same beat, with a new movie title put in.  Oh and if you make an Epic Movie --- make sure all the movies IMITATED are Epic. I don&#39;t think Talledega Nights is considered epic, nor was it a blockbuster. Neighter was Borat, or Nacho Libre. --- And Paris Hilton isn&#39;t epic."
"When I first saw the trailer a few months ago I thought it was quite funny and had huge potential. Sadly it doesn&#39;t, and is one of the worst movies I have seen in the 21st century.  At a ridiculously short running time, all the jokes are crammed in together at a pace where not only does the jokes fall flat on their arse, their timing is way off. Most of the &quot;jokes&quot; were mainly social commentary from the media over the last year or so.  I laughed twice during the movie - the snakes on a plane scene, which, in fact, was well observed and witty and when the White Bitch pointed to her white castle and it was a White Castle restaurant.  The ending is a bit of a let down to, and has little to do with the rest of the film.  Overall I can only hope the writers get their act together for Scary Movie 5, because by the looks of this, it will be just as bad.  3/10"
"The whole theater was quiet...maybe maybe a lil chuckle here or there but save your $$$$$$. I don&#39;t even think I would recommend for video. There is nothing funny about this movie. Typical annoying characters with typical bikini chicks, bad writing...you know exactly what is coming next. This movie tried way to hard to be funny. At the end of the movie everyone in the theater yelled BOO,. The whole movie is based on the characters in the Chronicals of Nadia. Just to gill you all in on how annoying it is one of the characters copy&#39;s everything another character says. Cant figure out why anyone would invest money into filming this. This is the first time I have written a review, it was so bad I felt compelled too."
"My opinion whether a comedy is a good comedy is fairly simple - even laughs throughout, and in having at least one sequence to make me chuckle so hard that my tears will roll down uncontrollably. I don&#39;t care if it&#39;s physical slapstick, witty dialogue or crass toilet humour. So long as my tears roll, it&#39;s a winner. But sadly, Epic Movie failed to meet the mark.  It&#39;s plain boring. Drawing its material from some of the largest &quot;summer&quot; blockbusters, like The Da Vinci Code, X-Men, The Lion The Witch and the Wardrobe, Charlie and the Chocolate Factory, Borat, Pirates of the Caribbean, Nacho Libre, Click, Snakes on a Plane, Fast and the Furious, Harry Potter and Superman Returns, Epic Movie follows the formula of taking a mickey out of genre movies. Written and directed by two of the many writers who gave us Scary Movie (a dig on horrors, thrillers and slasher flicks, the strongest of the franchise and still going), and Date Movie (one off bomb, taking a dig on romantic movies), Epic Movie is uninspiring, and the jokes are very lame.  In fact, I found myself yawning at the juvenile antics on screen, playing up plenty of times at the expense of sexuality - big boobs, kinky names, and countless gyrating female bodies. Even Stifler&#39;s Mom Jennifer Coolidge makes an appearance as the White Bitch, as do many other celebrities having themselves spoofed at by lookalikes - P Diddy, Ashton Kutcher, Mel Gibson, Paris Hilton, Michael Jackson, Samuel L Jackson, James Blonde, I mean Bond, even, and various Star Wars characters . Even theme songs from the movies get parodied, the most obvious being Teriyaki Boyz&#39;s Tokyo Drift theme.  The only kudos you can give to the filmmakers, are how they try to gel all these skits into one coherent movie - having all the different movies put together into a common thread is indeed a challenge, and you can&#39;t deny the effort. The Lion, The Witch and the Wardrobe forms the backbone of the story, while the rest are scenes which tangent off, or brought together into the world of Gnarnia. The sets too from the movies it adapted from also get recreated, probably on the cheap, and they do look as good as the original (if not gotten from them).  To really make your money&#39;s worth, stay throughout the end credits which run pretty long, where you&#39;ll see three sequences at various points, and you can bolt out of the door once you see the jab on Mel Gibson. For those who want to give this a miss on the big screen, a word of advice, don&#39;t even rent it on VCD unless it&#39;s free."
"me and my mates went to see this, loaded on booze and sugary drinks. i expected more of the same trashy, noughties American humour we all saw in the Scary Movies 3 and 4. what i got was worse.  we stayed for an hour, during which we never so much as cracked a smile. and we were drunk, mind. everything was mind numbingly predictable, it just didn&#39;t seem possible that the film makers expected anyone to find it funny.  - &#39;white witch&#39; becomes &#39;white bitch&#39;. big wows.  - the &#39;white bitch&#39;s sleigh becomes a pimp mobile. genius, or so they wished.  - when they go into the fawn person&#39;s home they try to spoof MTV cribs, but fail.  - there is a pointless, 5 minute fight scene that aims to try slapstick for size, but again it fails   - willy wonka does various evil things to them. never saw that coming.  - Paris hilton, kanye west and Britney spears are all targeted for satire. failure to be even slightly amusing in every case.  - there&#39;s an attempt at ghetto humour every 2 minutes, but it&#39;s so poorly executed it becomes monotonous.  - various recurring jokes, like the white lassie repeating everything the black lassie says, would drive even the most open minded person to suicide.  i could go on, but bloody hell. this film deserves to be erased from cultural history, nineteen eighty four style. the world&#39;s an international policed state as it is, i&#39;d say for the greater good this mess of a movie should be burned."
"It served me right. I read reviews saying how awful this movie was. But I went anyway, thinking, &quot;How bad could it be?&quot; After all, I enjoyed &quot;Not Another Teen Movie&quot; which the critics roundly trashed.  Answer: Colossally bad. If you find it hilarious when someone breaks wind or gets injured, you will be rolling in the aisles. Otherwise, you will be staring stone-faced at the screen in disbelief at the awfulness.  Famous recent movies are &quot;parodied.&quot; So are TV shows, celebrities and the Bush administration. There are a handful of amusing lines, but not enough to make it worth the ticket price. Several supposedly well-respected actors appear (no, not Eugene Levy), making you wonder if they did it out of friendship with the directors, or if the directors perhaps possess incriminating photos.  At one point, the Peter character calls for mercy on the &quot;White Bitch,&quot; and decides that she will be tried by a jury of her peers. Hopefully, the same will happen to everyone involved in this train-wreck, who will decide whether or not they can be trusted with more movies in the future."
I took my girlfriend to the movie theater thinking this was going to definitely be one of the funniest movies i&#39;ve ever seen... pure garbage. There was nothing funny about it. And all the jokes were kinda old. Like the whole captain swallow thing... straight off of Carlos Mancia! loll This movie is lame yo! Don&#39;t waste your money -- I took my girlfriend to the movie theater thinking this was going to definitely be one of the funniest movies i&#39;ve ever seen... pure garbage. There was nothing funny about it. And all the jokes were kinda old. Like the whole captain swallow thing... straight off of Carlos Mancia! loll This movie is lame yo! Don&#39;t waste your money
"Epic Movie is a disappointment in the genre of parody. In my time I have seen a number of good parodies, from Scary Movie to Spaceballs. This film is not remotely of that quality, but it is surprisingly funny. The humor is pointless, much like it is in the Family Guy series. It makes way to many references to brand names and celebrities, and not at all with the talent of the South Park crew. They are still my benchmark in comedy. I will let you in on the part where they mock Harry Potter; it is the most sidesplitting part of the movie.  Now some of you may be thinking that it is disrespectful to mock the &quot;Epic Movies&quot; noted in the film. I disagree; given their success it would be disrespectful to not mock them. Only than can we show the creators that we care enough to make fun of them.   In the end it deserves 4/10."
"I saw this movie tonight as a settlement, I was dying to see Smokin&#39; Aces which opened tonight. Unfortunately Aces wasn&#39;t playing anywhere locally and I said oh well I&#39;ll go see this. Worst decision ever. The entire movie was stupid slapstick 4 year old comedy. Not even one intelligent joke throughout the film. This was the first film I&#39;ve ever walked out of and the hour I gave it was the biggest waste of my life to date. I honestly had a better time when I broke my wrist. I could think of 100&#39;s of horrible things that would be more enjoyable than this film. Otherwise there&#39;s not much else to say about it, awful movie I absolutely hated it."
"Most of the reviews you see up here are people who don&#39;t know how to just sit down and enjoy a film.....I for one walked into that theater with all my friends ready to laugh....And I did, I laughed and had a great time at this film...More than half the people on the boards talking trash about it are people who walk into that theater rooting for that movie to fail!! and they are saying to themselves &quot;wow this movie is gonna suck&quot; and that mindset sticks with them and they refuse to laugh... They forget not every movie is made to win an Oscar..This movie is supposed to be stupid in a way...If you go into that theater ready to laugh and have a good time and with a good mindset...You will most likely love this film....Take my advice and get out there and see this movie...Laugh and enjoy yourself, thats what this movie is for....  GO SEE EPIC MOVIE!!!!"
"I tried watching this film a few years back and all I can remember is being angry at myself for wasting my time. There isn&#x27;t one scene in this film that gave me hope for some sort of smile. Its filled with cheesy one liners, and immature jokes that don&#x27;t even spark any bit of life into the film. Like other movies of this type, they try to make references to pop culture, but do it so awfully you just can&#x27;t help but get angry at their terrible attempts.   Your better off watching a film like DateMovie. At least it makes an attempt at making you laugh. Even if for a brief moment.  I give this movie 2/10."
"If somebody presents you with a copy of this film, may I suggest that you throw it in the bin straight away. This film is absolutely dreadful with poor acting, poor sense of humour which are just not funny whatsoever and a pathetic attempt to make it a parody from other films.   I honestly do not know why these kind of films are still being made today, (Scary Movie 5 etc.) there are so many aspiring film makers out there (myself included) that are being denied or restricted the opportunity to show off their true potential skill and knowledge in film making when crap films made by crap directors and producers like this so called &#x27;comedy&#x27; are being made today.   Now don&#x27;t get me wrong, I do have a sense of humour and I enjoy watching comedy films now and again, just not the ones as badly made as this one. Even when I was made to go and watch this film at the cinema when I was 13 years old I still didn&#x27;t find it funny or humorous at all.   If you&#x27;re a normal human being with a sense of humour, even if it&#x27;s vague, watch something else other than this pathetic excuse of a film. However, if your idea of a sense of humour is tying a cat to a ceiling fan and watch it being hurled around the room for your amusement, then this is the film for you. Enjoy it and hopefully I&#x27;ll never meet or work with people like you."
"Now this is my second review of this film because the first review just didn&#x27;t right and professional so here is the 2nd review.  This film is really bad lets get that straight but it is not the WORST movie I have seen because Zombie Nation fills that spot and by the way never watch Zombie Nation EVER.  Okay so Epic Movie ONE of the worst films I have seen its got the worst plot that is so boring and makes you cry as to why you are watching this. The acting is poor to say the least but not the worst I have seen. Now for the main bit which is how funny is it and the answer is not very funny, now I will admit there is 1 or 2 bits in the film that made me chuckle and thats it other than that its not funny really.  Avoid at all costs."
"In spite of many horrible comments, I thought I should check out Epic Movie because when it comes right down to it, all these sorts of low-brow, multi-film spoofs get terrible comments. So I want to try and put this movie in the context of its siblings.  Epic Movie is not as bad as Date Movie. Date Movie was painful, it was agony to watch and I gave up on it pretty quickly; maybe 20, 25 minutes. Epic Movie is more along the lines of dull with occasional amusing bits (notably a silly running gag of one character repeating another&#39;s lines). This is not to say it doesn&#39;t have painful moments (particularly anything based on MTV/Hip Hop/street culture. I watched about 35 minutes and then began to fast forward looking for amusing bits without much luck. So I probably wound up actually seeing about half the movie.  Scary Movies 1 through 3 were all much, much better than Epic Movie. I don&#39;t have a strong recollection of Scary Movie 4. I don&#39;t think it was as good as the first 3, but would say it was still several steps up from Epic Movie.  There&#39;s no real reason to see this movie, but at least it&#39;s not Date Movie. As to why Epic Movie is in IMDb&#39;s bottom 100 and Date Movie is not, I have no clue."
"This film is garbage, and thats all i have to say about it. But since my comment has to be at least 10 lines here go some of my thoughts on it. The script absolute filth. the jokes they piled on top of each other like a pile of crap and none of them were funny. the characters they were just atrocious and don&#39;t even get me started on the acting. worse than awful a mix of bad taste stupidity and unbelievable neglect to the human intellect. simplistic and terrible, poorly written. it looked like it took the writers about an hour or less to complete the script. now i know the journey always seems easier for the one who hadn&#39;t taken it but putting my self in place of Aaron and Jason, the writers of the film, i would either spend some time on writing something smarter or change the subject and back away from the genre of parody. and the saddest part it had kal penn in it. after seeing him in harold and kumar i wasn&#39;t expecting to see him in such a stupid movie, in case he did not know, it&#39;s called turning down the role, lots of famous actors do it. and unlike will smith, who dropped the role of neo and regretted it afterwards, kal penn would have been proud if he did drop the role. one more thing before i leave. AARON AND JASON PLEASE STOP WITH THESE HORRIBLE MOVIES. DATE MOVIE WAS BAD ENOUGH."
"OK I admit, this movie was bad. I&#x27;m not the kind of person who easily jumps on the wagon when basically everybody says a particular movie is beyond bad. I mean, I actually liked &#x22;Soul Plane&#x22; for what it was and I think its OK to laugh at a silly Leslie Nielsen every now or then. But &#x22;Epic Movie&#x22; is just plain and simple a bad movie, with no redeeming qualities.  So, what is the problem with &#x22;Epic Movie&#x22;? Well, what isn&#x27;t? First of all it just seemed to me that the writers at advance made a list of all 2006 movies they wanted to spoof. Then they thought to themselves how to connect all those different spoof sequences and make one whole move out of it. The end result is unfortunately what the poor viewers got presented. There is not obvious connection between everything which makes this a terrible disjointed spoof to watch, with something that is supposedly supposed to be a story but feels more like a labyrinth, that goes from left to right and flips over, with behind each corner a total different movie it spoofs, as you go through this mess they call a movie.  On top of that, this movie just really isn&#x27;t funny. Seriously this is the best they could come up with? I mean, it&#x27;s not like 2006 didn&#x27;t had any good spoof-able movies. There were so many opportunities for them but instead they came up with incredible lame and unfunny sequences, characters and dialog. It makes you wonder, didn&#x27;t the actors realized that what they did just wasn&#x27;t funny? Why didn&#x27;t they just quite and walked off the set, that would had saved them a lot of embarrassment.  The movie still has some good production values and is good and professional looking, which is basically the only reason why I just can&#x27;t rate it any lower.  2/10  http://bobafett1138.blogspot.com/"
"I really don&#39;t know why this film has received such a low rating seeing as how it&#39;s Oscar worthy. The story starts out like this. Blondie (The Good) is a professional gunslinger who is out trying to earn a few dollars. Angel Eyes (The Bad) is a hit man who always commits to a task and sees it through, as long as he is payed to do so. And Tuco (The Ugly) is a wanted outlaw trying to take care of his own hide. Tuco and Blondie share a partnership together making money off Tuco&#39;s bounty, but when Blondie unties the partnership, Tuco tries to hunt down Blondie. When Blondie and Tuco comes across a horse carriage loaded with dead bodies, they soon learn from the only survivor (Bill Carson) that he and a few other men have buried a stash of gold in a cemetery. Unfortunately Carson dies and Tuco only finds out the name of the cemetery, while Blondie finds out the name on the grave. Now the two must keep each other alive in order to find the gold. Angel Eyes (who had been looking for Bill Carson) discovers that Tuco and Blondie meet with Carson and knows they know the location of the gold. All he needs is for the two to lead him to it. Now The Good, The Bad and The Ugly must all battle it out to get their hands on $200,000 worth of gold. So if this whole plot and story is not good enough for you IMDb critics out there, I don&#39;t think anything is.  Great movie in every aspect.  1/10"
"I&#39;m truly ashamed to even give this 1 out of 10. I&#39;m ashamed I even bothered to comment on this movie. Finally someone manages to make the worst movie I&#39;ve EVER seen. I know it&#39;s a easy thing to say, but finally it is true. There is not ONE funny person, scene or moment in this movie. I give it minus 9 and not minus 10 because of some naked girls..(yup, it was the only highlight in this dark dark matter of film) How can something THIS bad get made? How do they manage to finish making it? How did I manage to make it through the whole movie? The only reason why I didn&#39;t fall asleep must be because I&#39;m just so curious to see how a movie can come through THIS BAD? A Night At The Museum was close to truly an amazingly bad movie. Still, even there I think at least I almost smiled once. In this movie I just got more and more curious about how more than one person could agree to put this on film(!?).  All anyone can say about this film is DON&#39;T WATCH IT!! This IS the worst movie I&#39;ve ever seen in my 29 years on this earth. It&#39;s not funny to watch to laugh at how bad it is either...it&#39;s just HORRIBLE. (sadly, I know I would have wanted to watch a movie that got a review as bad as this, but remember...I warned you) (me and probably the rest of the reviewers..heh)"
"Usually, I love parody movies. I grew up with the works of Mel Brooks, such as Spaceballs and Blazing Saddles, but also ZAZ&#39;s Airplane! and The Naked Gun. In my opinion these are wonderful, hilarious films that despite being silly, are also quite enjoyable.  Sadly, the parody genre has degraded a lot over the last few years. I thought Scary Movie 1 &amp; 2 were okay as well as Not Another Teen Movie, but this is nothing but a low-water mark in comedy. It&#39;s like they went into this project, thinking: &quot;Whatever, it&#39;s not like we&#39;re making a real movie, it&#39;s just a parody.&quot; Well, a funhouse needs a good structure as much as any other building, or else it will fall apart.  First off, the story, if you can even call it that, makes no sense. Don&#39;t get me wrong, inconsistencies and such makes other parodies great, but they also have some kind of plot, whether it&#39;s taken directly from a different movie or something original. What we have here is just a bunch of scenes put together where the humor depends too much on the likeness of the films they spoof.  Second, the tempo is awfully frustrating. A good joke needs timing, whether it&#39;s quick or slow. In Epic Movie, the jokes are stretched out like saltwater taffy, as if the directors are thinking: &quot;Sooner or later they&#39;ll laugh at it&quot;.  Third, there are too many different movies from too many different genres in the mix. A spoof on Narnia should mainly be crossed with LoTR and Harry Potter, Superman Returns with X-Men The Last Stand, et cetera, but to go this far is just annoying.  Fourth, so many good talents are wasted here. Seeing Jayma Mays acting like an overgrown, lisping 8-year-old just breaks my heart. She seems very sweet and I think she can do better than this. Same goes for Jennifer Coolidge. She can be really funny, but the only thing she did that I laughed at was this line: &quot;The kids have es-kay-puh-duh.&quot; The fact that she never screams bugged me too. She&#39;s the bad guy, for crying out loud! A good villain should be able to be somewhat loud and menacing, even if it&#39;s just a parody. Heck, even Dark Helmet did that better than her.  Thank goodness for people like Edgar Wright and Simon Pegg, known for their work on Shaun of The Dead and Hot Fuzz. These guys know how to make good parodies/homages and they show us there&#39;s still hope. I know everybody has different tastes and opinions when it comes to movies, but people ought to be smart enough to figure out what they really want to get for their money. If Hollywood starts to notice garbage like this doesn&#39;t do well at the box office, there might be some improvement. Hopefully."
"Oh. My. God. I&#39;m absolutely speechless for what to say about this movie, other than it&#39;s at the #1 spot on my bottom 100 forever. This is the only other movie that I&#39;ve ever had to rate a 1, the other being A Nightmare On Elm Street Part 2: Freddy&#39;s Revenge. But you couldn&#39;t ever compare Epic Movie to that. In fact, I still can&#39;t believe I wasted &pound;7 quid on this. If anything, they should of been letting people in the cinema to see this for free. That&#39;s all I&#39;ve got to say really, except for that I heard they&#39;re making a Fantasy Movie. I know, I can&#39;t believe it either... But I wouldn&#39;t be surprised if they followed it with Musical Movie or something really stupid like Disaster Movie."
"Epic Movie is supposed to be a comedy, but no one&#39;s laughing.  The trailers looked somewhat promising. I love spoof movies. But watching this movie was torture. I can&#39;t believe I watched the whole thing - a big mistake and two hours of my life I&#39;ll never get back. This is the worst movie I&#39;ve ever seen.  Those involved with this movie look very bad for letting it get to theatres. The jokes are old and stale. The plot is boring and predictable.  Those who have watched Epic Movie ask that if you haven&#39;t watched this movie yet, don&#39;t bother. If you do, you&#39;ll know why."
"When I got the movie in my hand, I was really excited - &quot;Wow this is going to be real good fun like Scary Movies 1,3,4(i didn&#39;t like 2!)&quot; Unfortunately the movie turned out to be a complete, utter disappointment.  A story about 4 orphans and their journey from the Wonka factory to Narnia held a lot of potential as a spoof on epic movies.  Everything from the storytelling, to the editing, to the acting was so amateur and so not funny - it seems like a bunch of 5th-6th graders got together and made this movie! Even funny actors like Kal Penn and the girl from the scary movies franchise were very disappointing.  The movie is truly silly and a waste of time.  Spend your money and/or time watching something else - anything else!  Cheers, Tahaab"
"If only you could rate a 0 out of 10. Even though that still wouldn&#39;t cover this abomination to the spoof genres. Re-used material to make it even more loathsome and such a good idea wasted completely by things like White Bitch, Jack Swallows and the stupid clich&eacute; moments and characters. Expected, rubbish, utterly disappointing. If this is what spoofs have com down to, I wish to see no more in my life. Scary Movie was pushing it, The Date Movie was almost unbearable, but Epic Movie is pure junk, a mindless attempt to poke any original fun left in the movies and the characters.  Avoid... at all costs. If you are forced to be manacled to this dribble, dispose of it immediately and pray to God no-one else finds it. And so in the grossly abusive and drab words of the White Witch: &quot;Kill this f***ing movie.&quot;"
"Holy Cr*p!  I have never seen such &quot;thing&quot; in my life. It&#39;s so bad that it hurts. I wonder what on earth made these actors to accept this kind of self-humiliation. Money...? I don&#39;t know, but for sure I&#39;ve seen them in much better movies. I have to admit they&#39;ve created something unique. The worst movie ever.  It&#39;s 2007 people!!!!  We are supposed to evolve mentally but this kind of entertainment doesn&#39;t help at all!!!  1/10"
"Epic Movie? That&#39;s the biggest joke of this entire thing and, like the rest of the &quot;jokes&quot; in this movie, there&#39;s nothing funny about it.  Epic Movie is an example of how Hollywood is just a corporate machine with no interest in producing artistic, though provoking, progressive movies anymore. The idea for this movie was clearly concocted in a marketing meeting with a bunch of fat execs who sat down one day with their big Starbucks coffees and Dunkin Doughnuts and came up with a movie idea that would hit all of their target markets, whilst ripping off any movie that has made money over the last year  Yeah, Scary Movie did it, but at least it was funny, and was poking fun back at Hollywood by showing that movies designed by marketers were the real joke. I guess the marketing people didn&#39;t get that joke either.  I mean what is going on in this world? Who read this script and thought it was a good idea? How did this movie ever get made? Who actually stumped up money to make this crap? I mean this movie is so dumb only George W. Bush would actually get it."
"Really it is. I mean that! Welcome to another &quot;Matthew Rants&quot;. Due to the success of the SCARY MOVIE franchise, the film-makers decided to come up with other ones like DATE MOVIE and this one. It looks like that the writers got their ideas from Mad Magazine, The Far Side, or they must be watching too much cartoons. The film blatantly rips-off all those well-known and insignificant movies (such as CLICK). This is what I call drivel with a capital D. The writers put all these references and spoofs in the plot at random. Here&#39;s the worst part, all those sick and twisted jokes, especially ones related to bestiality such as the true parents of Mr. Thumnis, the fact that the beaver and Mr. Thumnis are gay, and Also the Liman&#39;s true parents. Yuck! My mother was right, this film IS epic trash. This film is a far-cry from what the other films are spoofing, it is the title that seems to deceive the audience. I&#39;d rather watch 300. Now THERE&#39;S an epic movie. Rated PG-13 for comic violence, comic gore, language, and sexual references such as bestiality."
"After seeing this movie I thought to myself, &quot;Wow I&#39;m really upset, good thing everyone that will ever see this movie is equally upset as I am.&quot; Then I go onto IMDb and find out that several &quot;humans?&quot; actually think this is a funny movie. I&#39;m into cheap laughs every once in a while, and that&#39;s what I expected when I rented this movie. But there were absolutely no laughs. Not one. Not when laugh in the entiritey of this film. If you are reading this and have not seen this movie, make sure never to see it. I know the only way I&#39;d ever see this movie again involves the chair from Clockwork Orange. Oh, and if you do by the off chance rent it, just fast forward the entire thing and make up your own jokes. That&#39;s what I did about half way through, and it was a lot more fun."
"I Must Say...This is THE WORST FUNNY MOVIE EVER! I cant believe some people who actually liked this movie. I&#39;ve just seen someone say &quot;Its the best thing in my life&quot;...seriously WHAT THE HELL?! Its the most unhumoured, ridiculous and frustrating movie ever. I must admit though, if you are with some friends and watch this movie...you do laugh at its stupidity. It makes me wonder what the hell was going through the producers&#39; head.  Everyone told me not to see this film, but obviously the anticipation was killing me so i HAD to see it. What..a..waste..of..my..time! no storyline, rubbish actors, no laughs and definitely not worth it! The End"
"I think this is the worst movie I have seen in my life, and probably the worst I will ever see. I just wanted it to end since the very moment it had begun. The plot itself is more that just ridiculous, it makes Scary Movie look like an Oscar-nomination-worth movie. There goes an hour and a half of my life I will never get back. If you were thinking about watching this movie, be smart, and stay away from it. The script, plot, acting and everything is very very wrong with this movie. It&#39;s a disaster of Epic proportions, that shows how low the new cinema quality can be and how every piece of junk is getting a chance on the big screen."
"Wow is this a bad movie. Like, walk out of the movie and demand your money back bad. Downloadable for free and I STILL wouldn&#39;t recommend watching it bad. A collection of the most hackneyed, lame jokes from the worst episodes of Leno bad. Seriously, this is really, really awful. To be honest, the only reason I even scanned thru it after the first minute was to find the scenes with the extremely hot Carmen Electra. Nothing, and I mean nothing, else in this movie is worth even the honor of background noise, let alone your full attention. Normally with movies this bad I would suggest developing a drinking game around it to try and make it fun, but this movie is such a mess that I don&#39;t even think alcohol could help. Avoid."
"Epic Movie is quite possibly, no is without a doubt, the absolute worst bomb of a movie that was ever made. We could spent centuries searching the universe for a greater abomination, and come up empty. Epic Movie is the anti-Christ, no, the anti-Christ of the anti-Christ. It&#39;s not only the bottom of the barrel - its when you pick the barrel up and scrape the grease off of the worms under the barrel. Epic movie is an event in which, ten years from now, we will be holding candle-light vigils for the day in which it came out. I would rather be chased down by a pride of angry lions, and then be skinned by rabid badgers than watching this hideous, poorly-made, infantile, bush-league, awe-inspiringly bad, heretical movie again. Within 5 minutes of this movie, the guy in back of me&#39;s jaw fell 10 feet and hit me in the back of the head from the shear horror of what we were seeing. He then died of cardiac arrest, an exit to the misery that was Epic Movie. There is not ONE funny moment in this entire movie. The fact that it is labeled a comedy is not only an insult to comedy, but an insult to us all. 5 year olds see this movie and become scarred for life. 50 year olds see this and want to end their life. Do not, if you have any faith or love of the world left, see Epic Movie. If George Bush were to do ONE thing right in the rest of his lame duck Presidency, he would do a house-to-house round up of all copies of Epic Movie (should be easy, as nobody would EVER buy this), and bury them in the desert next to ET, the game. We would then pulverize them hundreds of times, burn them, and then seal the ashes in concrete. These ashes would be further destroyed by nuking them in the middle of the ocean. If there was even a smithereens left, we could then bury it. Even then, we would never be sure that it was gone.  0 / 10"
"I avoided this movie heavily during it&#39;s run at the box office. I knew that it was going to be a terrible film. It looked highly unoriginal and the jokes were all lame and uninspired. I even boycotted it, and told my sister not to see it. I had been disappointed by Date Movie in a huge way and I couldn&#39;t bare the smell of defeat.  --But, a few weeks ago, we found a box of DVDs and my sister wanted to watch it. Since there was no financial attachment, I agreed to watch it. Show of hands... how many people found it funny? Put it down... don&#39;t be modest. From the start I could tell that it was uninspired... but how so. They didn&#39;t change the Willy Wonka character (though the remake was a joke within itself) and the chocolate making thing was just unnecessary. It went on to reference Pirates, Narnia, and MTV Cribs without adding any original twists to it. It also made me feel really insulted for the one lady who kept acting dumb... who probably did just in hopes of getting fired.  Avoid this... This is byfar one of the worst parodies of any time and ranks with Norbit and What Love Is as the worst movies of the year."
"It was only in my boredom i decided to watch this film and expected a good laugh. this film emphasizes the the talent of the wayan bros and other writer of scary movie 1 and 2. Throughout the plot is weak the premise of the film seems like a good idea but is poorly executed.tie ins to recent films are also poorly done as jack sparrow just appears during the middle of scenes and this sets the trend for the movie. the humour also is very weak when given potentially funny situations the butt for many of the jokes seems to be mtv i say mtv come out better for it, the humour is inappropriate and painful, the writers of this film really have to have a long think about what went wrong here before setting out on a new movie.the worst movie iv ever seen by a long shot made those 93 minutes seem like an entire lifetime including the horrific death."
"Was it really Kal Penn in this useless worthless piece of trash? I saw the film dubbed in Chinese, or maybe it was Russian, and subtitled in Chinese! That was about the most interesting part of this film.  It was gross, pathetic and idiotic.  Thank god I did not understand what these moronic characters were trying to say. I am sure that lessened my torture by several degrees. What age group was this film targeting? There is no way anyone could have liked this piece of trash! I should have taken a nap instead. Even reading with the danger of puking due to travel sickness might have been better. So I say Nyet Nyet - stay away."
"I went to see Epic Movie, hoping to get a good laugh out of it with all the epic films it was spoofing. Yet I was in for a huge disappointment. I was suppose to have fun watching this movie, but the movie was not of any fun at all. The acting was unbelievably horrible, the script was very unoriginal and uncreative, the plot was just downright stupid, the characters were very uninteresting, the spoofing was more like plagiarizing, and worst of all the jokes were not at all funny. The movie as a whole was very boring and dull. Epic Movie is, without a doubt, the worst movie ever.  I&#39;m a guy who will like pretty much anything, and even I think this movie sucks.  If there&#39;s any movie of 2007 that deserves a Razzie for Worst Picture, Epic Movie would be it."
"I have a personal policy against condemning any film, or book, or TV show, or band, or comedian, utterly. There&#39;s enough negativity out there from the flamers, the trolls, people who like to spew venom and hide behind their cybernetic anonymity. Besides, why should we listen to the opinions of others, going into something lacking an open mind, just following sheepishly on advance word or The Buzz, or the words of some mealy-mouthed critic who was probably a failed filmmaker-novelist-musician taking it out on others who at least have made an attempt at something? Give everyone a fair chance, man!   Does this mean that Epic Movie defied the critics and turned out to be a good movie? NOOOOOOOOOOOOO!!!! Are you kidding? It was dross! But no, I am determined not to add to the general negative karma that&#39;s floating on the electronic ether. Stay positive, stay positive.   Thankfully I didn&#39;t spend any money on this, just lost a bet and had it given to me to watch, before passing it onto my 12-year-old niece, whose friends had watched it and liked it. Upon viewing it herself, she liked it too, though she&#39;s astute enough to be equally embarrassed at liking it. And having seen it as well, it was initially successful at the box office, and was trimmed on general release to get a wider audience, as only 12 year olds would appreciate it. 12 year olds who undergo involuntary spasms of laughter when they hear swear words and sub-Carry On puns (&quot;Harry Beaver&quot;, anyone?), and generally have sufficient attention deficit to half-watch it while ruminating over whether or not Johnny Depp is hotter than Orlando Bloom. (He is, by the way. I&#39;m straight, and even I know he&#39;s hotter than most main sequence suns in our galaxy.)   Epic Movie has been made by the same people who did Date Movie, and to judge from the titles, presumably also Not Another Teen Movie and the Scary Movie series. Or maybe they all attended the same grade-school classes where all their best jokes were written. I think I saw Scary Movie once, so I&#39;m certain I&#39;ve seen them all: some semi-talented and talented people embarrass themselves to varying degrees while spoofing other films in amazingly limp and uncreative fashions. No, spoofing&#39;s too strong a word; that implies even a measure of wit involved- No, wait! I&#39;m starting to contradict my earlier Mission Statement on promoting positivity. take a deep breath, start again&#133; The plot is a Frankenstein monster of, you guessed it, epic movies like Charlie and the Chocolate Factory, The Chronicles of Narnia, The Da Vinci Code and The X-Men, with minor organs in the beast garnered from less epic fare such as Borat, Nacho Libre, and Snakes on a Plane. Again, I can&#39;t use the word &quot;spoof&quot; here, because there&#39;s almost no attempt at any wit or satire with these. And no, I don&#39;t count showing Magneto with a giant Warner Brothers cartoon-style magnet on his head, or calling the Narnia villainess the White B*tch instead of Witch, or having Willy Wonka as a cannibalistic maniac. Mel Brooks at his worst remains superior to what&#39;s offered here, because he at least can recreate the target scenes and provide jokes, however lame. Yes, I have just stated that there are worse films than Robin Hood: Men in Tights, and I&#39;m sticking by that claim with Galilean tenacity.   What makes it more tragic than deplorable is that there seems to be a genuine, professional attempt to make a decent film (some scenes demonstrate at least an aptitude at creativity) as well as rich, faithful recreations of many of the various elements of the original films. Of special note is Crispin Glover&#39;s uncanny impression of Depp&#39;s Wonka, and SNL&#39;s Darrell Hammond&#39;s equally laudable copy of Depp&#39;s Jack Sparrow. But giving nothing but accurate recreations is no more funny than that class clown who thought it was amusement in itself to mimic everyone&#39;s voices around him.   It&#39;s as if the screenwriters abandoned the notion of providing humor in favor of letting the audience play Reference Bingo and go, &quot;Oh yeah, they took that bit from The Fast and The Furious!&quot; But not totally; there are brief moments that made me chuckle, maybe even laugh if I&#39;d had another beer in me. But it becomes embarrassing, like watching a drunken friend humiliate himself by trying to walk a straight line in an effort to prove his sobriety when everyone knows he can barely manage a few steps. And when they weren&#39;t mostly failing to be funny, they had their characters break into hip-hop gyrations. The first time, seeing Oompa Loompas do it, is almost funny. Seeing pirates do it, then mythical warriors, then mutants following, and this tenuous bungee cord of a gag is ready to snap&#133;   The four leads are forgettable, as they&#39;re meant to be, and I expect nothing less- no! Stop that, it&#39;s mean! It&#39;s not as if the better, more talented performers who appear could do much better with what they were given: Fred Willard, Jennifer Coolidge, Glover and Hammond have appeared in some of the funniest films around, and I&#39;m confident enough in their abilities that they&#39;ll survive this.   There you go: the scenery looked nice, I almost laughed out loud, and I liked some of the performers to wish them better roles than what they had here. See? That was positive enough, wasn&#39;t it? Take that, Samuel Johnson!"
"I guess this movie was trying too hard to follow the &#x22;Scary Movie&#x22; franchise. If it is, it failed miserably. Four orphans are invited to Willie Wonka and the Chocolate (and sewage) factory, where they eventually get stumbled onto a plot by the &#x22;White Bitch&#x22; to rule the world. They must defeat her to save the world and free Gnarnia.  In this movie, we see one parody after the other, but done so in an unfunny, tasteless, overly-crude and overbearing way. What follows is a boring story with silly characters and dumb antics. What renders this movie to borderline annoying is the use of excessive rap songs in a number of scenes. Put in some political puns (Fake Saddam Hussein or the real WMDs?), this movie was sure an epic travesty. I got to mention that my one favorite scene in the movie is the &#x22;Paris Hilton&#x22; sequence, where she is squashed by a falling Susan.  Other than that, don&#x27;t bother with this film. There are many other epic comedies than this.   Grade F"
"The writers and directors of this film are geniuses! I can&#39;t imagine any other director living or dead having the talent to wring absolutely every iota of joy or humor from every frame of this film in such a spectacular fashion. It must have taken years of preparation. Even so, you&#39;d think merely by accident there would be a smattering of humor hidden in this sad morass of mindless drivel; ahhhhh, but this was no accident; after all, they wrote the script!  Knowing that Friedberg and Seltzer have catapulted this rousing success into a disturbing parade of future stinkers, well now, I can only congratulate them on a job well done. Not worth watching, mind you, but well done. I look forward to avoiding their films in the future."
This movie was the worst thing i ever have seen with my two eyes i could not believe. we were renting a movie between head of state which is a great movie or epic. my brother said he really wanted to see it so we rented it 20 minutes through the movie i was outside jumping on my trampoline i couldn&#39;t sit through it anymore i never new a piece of cinema would ever be so bad. this movie was horrible the jokes aren&#39;t funny if you could have given me props and a set i could have easily made a more interesting and better movie than this it was horrendous it sucked i never want to hear about this movie it is embarrassing directer Aaron seltzer should be embarrised for epic movie and date movie
"WoW This Movie Is Sad It Made No Sense. I Did Not Laugh One Time In This Movie And People Are Saying Its Funny? The Storyline Was Dumb What Was The Point To This Movie. The Main Reason Why I Don&#39;t This Movie Is Because I Love Comeny And Date Movie And Scary Movie 1,2,3,4 Were Funny And The 2 Writers From Those Movies Made This One So I Was Thinking It Would Be Funny And Omg Its Not. I Think No One Should See This Movie Only If You Want To Throw Away Your Movie Then Go Ahead And Buy This Movie. I Hope Scary Movie 5 Is Not Made My These People That Made This Movie If So I&#39;m Not Throwin My Money Away Again. And That&#39;s Why I Disliked Epic Movie.  P.S Don&#39;t Make No More Epic Movies Pleez."
"I was looking forward to viewing this film because of its popularity, and other&#39;s recommendation. So, i decided to watch it the next weekend. First off, it started with a good hook, and got me slightly involved. Later on in the movie the humor was so lame and the screen play was horrible that i almost stuck my head in my popcorn bucket and went to sleep. The &quot;humor&quot; is Willy wonkas chocolate factory river is made of poo. how funny! Also Willy wonka dancing to &quot;Fergalicious&quot; with his oompa loom-pas is supposed to make my lips turn into a smile. They should have thrown in a &quot;your mom&quot; joke with that. I almost stood up and demanded my money back. The movie is lame and predictable. I had a total of about 2 laughs. If you want to see a funny movie, watch &quot;Borat&quot;, or &quot;Wedding Crashers&quot;, these movies are actually funny, and good.  Epic movie is a movie to avoid spending $8, and approximately 2 hours of your life on."
"This movie was beyond awful. I figured it would be half descent since it has the funny Kal Penn; however, he can&#39;t save this dreadful script. At least with Scary Movie, it&#39;s spoofing horror/suspense films and Date Movie spoofs the teen films. But Epic Movie seems to pick movies and TV shows at random to spoof. You expect spoofs of films like LOTR and the Narnia films; those are epics. But this movie goes after the MTV shows Cribs and Punked and spoofs movies from Willy Wonka to Harry Potter. It&#39;s just all over the place, reminds me of ADD.  FINAL VERDICT: One of the worst films to come out in the past 5 years. I don&#39;t recommend it. Not one laugh throughout the movie."
"Here&#39;s something revealing about Epic Movie. From a purely technical point of view, it has some truly impressive make-up and production values at many points. Some of the set designs and character re-creations from real movies are done in great detail and are actually pretty good. For this reason, the movie wins extra points, and yet it still deserves less than a 1/10.   Like the other garbage regularly let loose from this group of talentless buffoons, Epic Movie is yet another barely decipherable shoestring of a plot draped carelessly over a bizarre series of idiotic skits lampooning current popular movies (notice &quot;popular&quot; and not &quot;good&quot;), resulting in another romp through the asinine sense of humor of writers Jason Friedberg and Aaron Seltzer.   By the way, these guys remind me of strippers or porn stars. I always wonder what these people say to their parents about their &quot;careers.&quot; Likewise, how can Friedberg&#39;s and Seltzer&#39;s parents not be horribly humiliated by what their sons do for a living? How difficult is it for them to keep secret what their kids are currently doing to the world? I mean, can they really possibly watch a movie like this and think, &quot;That&#39;s my boy!&quot; I should think not. I would wonder about them, too.   But hey, these guys are laughing all the way to the bank. They spend all summer at the movies and then go home and rip off as many films as they can and throw in as many disgusting jokes as possible and they are making millions of dollars every time. My only consolation is that I live in China and, since everything is pirated here, those jerks didn&#39;t make a dime off of me because I watched it on a pirated DVD.   Yeah, that&#39;s right. I bought a pirated copy of Epic Movie and I own it. I paid 10 yuan (about $1.35) for it, which is about ten times what it&#39;s worth. What a ripoff.  Actually I take that back. My other consolation is that they are running out of generic genres. What&#39;s next, Children&#39;s Movie?"
"Who makes movies like this? It&#39;s like Scary Movie 5, only less funny, more gross, idiotic, moronic than either of the exceptionally stupid 4 Scary Movies.  There isn&#39;t much to say here except avoid at all costs. It&#39;s not even Austin Powers funny, it&#39;s not funny at all, it&#39;s boring. I can watch just about everything and tonight I was in the mood for anything, no matter how dumb. But this was way beyond dumb, after 30 minutes I deleted it.  Whoever rented this movie or payed money for theater tickets should demand a refund. It&#39;s not even a movie. I have an idea of how to make funnier and more interesting films: just flip the channels randomly with the remote and mix the scenes together. Bleah, what a piece of dung."
"When some of the same guys who worked on the &quot;SCARY MOVIE&quot; series can&#39;t lure Anna Faris or Regina King back to another installment, you know it has to be bad. And this one&#39;s so awful, it&#39;s forced me to rethink my qualifications for what makes bad movies bad. And I have seen some reeeeaaalllll stinkers in my time!  Not that it doesn&#39;t have some good qualities: as usual, the art direction matches that of the targeted movies as much as possible in a lot of scenes. And the VERY occasional joke actually does work, but those instances are few and far between during this, the world&#39;s longest ninety-minute torture-fest.  And then there&#39;s the casting. The lead girls were obviously supposed to be replacements for Faris and King, and I think they COULD be funny. They just need a great script to help them out, and believe me, this ain&#39;t it.  But what&#39;s most criminal is the waste of performers like Kal Penn, Jennifer Coolidge, Fred Willard and Darrell Hammond. Every single one of them has been hysterical in other comedies, and really good in dramas, too, so we know they can act.  The best thing they can do for their careers is to cut off all contact with the lameoids responsible for this film, and scratch EPIC MOVIE off of their resumes. Thank God that hysterical amnesia has already cleansed all memory of this traumatic experience from my memory banks. I&#39;m thankful that I only spent $4.99 to see this, but it wouldn&#39;t have been worth the time even if it was free."
"Wow....I&#39;m speechless. When I first saw Epic Movie&#39;s poster, I thought I was in for a couple of good laughs. Boy was I wrong. The acting was freaking awful especially the Snakes on a plane scene. Which I&#39;m not going to spoil. And another thing that should be made an important point. IT WASN&#39;T FUNNY AT ALL. Actually, only the &quot;Punk&#39;d&quot; parody made me chuckle while the rest of the movie made me cringe.  Now I don&#39;t want you to think I&#39;m just another guy on the hate bandwagon. You may like this movie if you liked Date Movie but you are going to probably be disappointed. If you really wanna see this piece of crap then I can&#39;t stop you. I&#39;m just warning you."
"The last time I saw a parody film that I thought was surprisingly okay was Date Movie. I gave that an 8 out of 10. People probably thought I was something of insane, but I actually enjoyed it. I thought it was funnier than Scary Movie 4, for sure. Jason Friedburg and Aaron Seltzer must have realized that their movies make a nice mint, because they made a sequel titled Epic Movie. I guess what I thought was funny for Date Movie, they just duplicated with different movies, and the result, probably to their dismay, was just not good. Here&#39;s the story: 4 orphans (Kal Penn, Adam Campbell, Jayma Mays &amp; Faune A. Chambers) who have no real connection to each other, since they lived in different parts of the world and coincidently, live in different movies (Kal&#39;s in Nacho Libre, Adam is the Superhero parody, Jayma is the Da Vinci Code, and Faune is Snakes On A Plane), have all met based on the finding of a chocolate bar, which leads to Willy&#39;s Factory. Willy is maniacal, and wishes to use the orphans for his candy. They escape into the large wardrobe into Gnarnia, where the four discover they are the only ones who can save this mystical world.  The movie has great ideas, but does not execute them well. Some &quot;jokes&quot; (If you could call them jokes) have slight humor only in that they are recognized in Pop culture today, such as the Snakes on a Plane reference where Samuel L. Jackson (Only an actor, not really him) states that due to the internet, the only thing he&#39;s most recognized for is his famous quote which he repeats to annoying affect. By the 3rd shouting of this quote, it started to become obnoxious that the writers have indeed, made their point. Why continue? Also, do not be deceived by the title. It says Epic, and many would define &quot;Epic&quot; in the sense of film as something that is legendary, such as a lot of the classic films like &quot;Ben-Hur&quot; or &quot;Gone with the Wind&quot;, or &quot;The Sound of Music&quot;, where the budget was no where near as important as the story telling, and people preferred the Quality of the movie instead of how much money went into it. What the creators define Epic is any movie out now that is overblown to large proportions based on Controversy, content, recognized quotes, or anything else that would not define a film connoisseur&#39;s taste for what Epic would be.  Some of the humor, and by &quot;some&quot;, I&#39;m really trying to find points that are funny, can actually provide a laugh, but expect a &quot;Ha- Ha&quot; moment. Not a laugh that you would get from watching Airplane! or a classic comedy Jerry Zucker film. The film parody section, like the Zombie section or the Family Travel film section in Hollywood has been played to death. This stuff is beginning to come off as a get rich quick for stringing a bunch of movies together with no real plot connecting them into a 80 - 90 minute film. There are much funnier parody films out there. Chances are you have probably seen them already. Go pull them out of your tape case or re-rent it and have a bowl of popcorn and sit home and watch a movie. Trust me, you&#39;ll have more fun listening and probably quoting Leslie Nielsen&#39;s movies than sitting through this &quot;Movie&quot;, if it can be called that.  I rate this a 3/10."
"This movie had potential to be funny, yet it just wasn&#39;t. The parodies were good, the jokes were sometimes funny, but the characters all sucked except for &quot;Kumar&quot; who was the only one that seemed to get what the hell was going on. They took the movie as far as they could, yet it needed to be even more insane to make it funny at all, so they should have just bitten the bullet and made a rated R movie out of it. Sadly they didn&#39;t. I don&#39;t really know if this pertains to the movie or not but it was really sad that my two friends and i were the only people in the theater that were laughing at the parodies, while everyone else was laughing at the idiotic side jokes, the draw obviously was too young and too ignorant. Don&#39;t waste your time going to this unless its your only option, but if your into poorly made movies and like to see films that you could have made better, this is the one for you."
"When I was a kid I watched movies like Blazing Saddles and Airplane! Both were (and still are) hilariously funny to me and while I knew they both were spoofing certain genres and even certain movies I never thought it was essential to see the original sources in order to get the jokes. Also, while the gags were the thing, I also think a little more attention was paid to both characterization and plot. As a result, little dated either one. Watch something like Epic Movie, however, and you can&#39;t help but think they&#39;ve thrown everything (from various TV shows and movies) but the kitchen sink (and no sink is literally thrown as far as I can tell). This results in such a hodge podge of parodies upon parodies that the plot gets interrupted constantly and characterization (what there is of it) is violated for cheap laughs (of which there were few on my side). I did like the performances of Fred Willard and Jennifer Coolidge. Otherwise, this was mostly a waste of time for me."
Actually I don&#39;t want to mince to much words on this movie! That&#39;s why I will keep it short! This is not a parody! This is a tragedy and disaster! You will recognize a lot of movies and MTV shows! There have been (maybe) 2 minutes of brilliant jokes! But for the rest it just isn&#39;t funny! The director and writer were part of the people responsible for Scary Movie! And most reviewers were always badmouthing the Wayans Brothers. But now you have the evidence what happens when the Wayans Brothers are not involved! You get crap! Maybe now people will realize that the success of Scary Movie (1 and 2) is all because of the talent of the Wayans Brothers!
"My own personal opinion on these directors so far is that the only decent movie that they ever made was Vampires Suck. That could be due to my disrespect for the source material or it could be the fact that they got better with that one (not by much though).  The best that these movies get out of me is a very slight chuckle here and there. Too few, far in-between and not really that funny anyway. How they got anybody to come back from their previous movies - I shall never know. Mainly because it really is nothing we haven&#x27;t already seen before.  So is this the worst spoof I have seen? No. Something like Breaking Wind part 1 deserves that award (If you haters of these directors haven&#x27;t seen it - do so now, then you&#x27;ll know why I think the hate for Friendberg/Seltzer is taken a little too far on these boards). Is it any good? No. Can it be watchable? Maybe to those who enjoy the odd stupid comedy with a higher tolerance for it than I do (TRANSLATION: Fourteen year olds)."
"Don&#x27;t be fooled by movie critics and other IMDb users. This movie is decent. Worth watching, but nothing really great.  This movie isn&#x27;t good. But come on, it&#x27;s not that bad! It actually has some funny parts. I mean sure, the movie is very immature and the characters are very 2 dimensional, but come on. Turn your brain off! Have fun! Relax! I actually think this movie was very well put together. The way the stories blended was pretty good. If only the characters were likable and they didn&#x27;t swear every five seconds it could&#x27;ve been a pretty good film.  My advice, just watch it. It&#x27;s 90 minutes (if that), what do you have to lose? It&#x27;s worth watching."
"Okay - this movie is really bad! And most of the time it is also not funny at all although tries to be. I watched it on DVD because I have a preference for trash-movies and I was curious to watch this since it was in the &quot;Bottom 100&quot; list of the worst films ever. Although it is bad, I must say that I saw a lot of films which are much worse than this one (e.g. &quot;The silence of the Hams&quot;). The idea of making a &quot;funny&quot; movie which contains no plot and simply consists of a sequence of parodies of other popular movies is really not fancy. At least you can watch it without the feeling that you are being tortured. Thus it did not deserve to be on the Bottom 100."
"Well, another year means another installment of the poor man&#39;s slapstick franchise, this time being Epic Movie. From a few of the writers who did Scary Movie, and those solely responsible for last year&#39;s Date Movie comes this mindless and flimsy foray into the fantasy genre mock-up. It seems to be an unusual thing, how these movies keep getting made despite ending up near the top of every worst-of list, be it critical or popular opinion. One must conclude that the majority of people who go out and give these movies the smallest amount of stars possible are simply not the intended demographic (which, after 5 progressively sleazy incarnations, should be apparent).  Because someone is obviously watching these movies. Yes, the demographics of slapstick humor might have taken a severe nosedive over the past ten years, but that is not to say that films like this are not tailor made for the current pseudo-hip-hop youth culture. And it is that young audience who will likely find the most joy in this positively mediocre effort. Epic Movie is even more dedicated in wooing young urban teens then the more vulgar Date Movie was, infusing an unnecessary amount of it&#39;s jokes with awkward rap interludes and cameos. It has become more apparent that the intelligence factor for these types of movies has truly gone down to a lowest common denominator, but that still does not give one the right to say there is nothing here for anyone.  Yes, Epic Movie suffers as pretty much all the others like it, in the fact that there is about one funny joke for every ten or fifteen that feel positively dirt-cheap. But those occasional jokes that do succeed prove that this comedy does at least in some small way live up to it&#39;s genre&#39;s promise. Primarily, Willy Wonka and Chronicles of Narnia are parodied, while dozens of characters from more of last year&#39;s films pop in and out for very frivolous appearances. The majority will be a bore, even for a group of drunken teenagers, but there are at least half a dozen gags that are still funnier then most of the material non-slapstick comedies provide, and in this pitiful day in age where Epic Movie remains the flagship of this dying sub-genre, where else can we turn too in Hollywood to see overexposed characters, phrases, and scenes get put in their place?"
"OK, let me qualify my score with a small anecdote regarding this movie. For some reason, a friend of mine and I decided to &quot;rent&quot; this movie in the hotel room while in Vegas (we had to take a breather from the night before). Anyway, as the movie progressed, my friend eventually fell asleep and I vigilantly finished viewing this piece of crap. Afterward, I lamented to my friend how awful this movie really was and even he, having slept through around 2/3 of this movie knew, commenting &quot;Yeah, you didn&#39;t wake me up from laughing.&quot; Do not see this movie. It is of the same line of films as the &quot;Scary Movie&quot; and other such dreck. At least the &quot;Scary Movie&quot; franchise scores a few laughs now and again. THIS MOVIE IS NOT FUNNY AT ALL! All those involved with this turd gallivanting as a film should hang their heads in shame, move to the Himalayas, join the Buddhist monks and try to atone for their sins!"
"I write this as I watch the movie! Yes ladies and gentlemen, it is awful! I admire good parodies, but making fun of a list of movies that are great, and in a very bad way, is very sad. this movie is seriously a waste of money for all its investors, and bad reputation for those who acted in it. One would think that the whole crew that has been creating this string of movies for a period of ten years got the message that they have been exponentially making it worst, and yet they still present us with this horror. I have never not finished a movie I started watching hence why i watched the movie, and ironically enough, the cut scenes of the actors errors shown during the credits are funnier than what I just finished watching."
Ynko! Attention this is dung! I have looked thousand cinema! But however this is awful and absolutely worthless. Why for good films give the award and for bad do not deprive with the license... Worthless game of actors. The worthless and disgusting script. All a mistake of the nature. Allow to ask - you that have spent on drink the budget? In total last films of the American film studio&#39;s smell awfully. In the majority the comedy cinema became trite and insipid. You come round what for feed the audience with dung? Most of all amazes an abundance of cinema with nasty duologue&#39;s. Yes duologue&#39;s it is the greatest problem of the American films!
"&quot;What a lovely piece of crap.&quot; First time ever that I saw a comedy at the theatre and no one laughed, although I liked some of the sketches that criticise the American culture this movie is not funny, don&#39;t waste your money. It&#39;s time do change the &quot;scary movie&quot; formula, it&#39;s getting annoying and repetitive, using always the same jokes and when these don&#39;t work,try farting or disgusting the audience for a few laughs. I only saw 40 minutes of the movie so if it get&#39;s funny at end i don&#39;t know but i doubt it, saved the other 46 minutes of my life=) I only have the trouble of posting a comment when I either really love or hate a movie, and this one I hate."
"This movie is REALLY bad! I use to like spoof movies (Scary Movie&#39;s series is great!) but this one is pure trash! The &quot;joke scenes&quot; (if we even can call them that!) are just so ridiculous, stupid and childish that are totally unfunny! The entire film has no sense at all. It&#39;s just a bunch of spoofing scenes from different movies without any coherence or fun! OK that I didn&#39;t watch a great part of the original movies that this one is spoofing (usually the spoofing movies are funnier when we have watched the original movies before&#133;), but even so it has no fun at all.  Another thing that annoyed me was the cheap imitation of the Ana Farris character type. The dumb girl&#39;s character that Ana Farris use to do in the Scary Movie&#39;s series is cheaply imitated in this movie, but in a way that it&#39;s truly disgusting! Ana is great doing the &quot;dumb girl&quot;, but Jayma Mays (the girl who played that character in this movie) was just terrible! I suppose it&#39;s not her fault because she even seems to be a good actress. The problem is really with the production of the movie which is pure trash!"
"All I can say after watching this movie is &quot;How did this script EVER get green-lighted?&quot; It goes without saying that the latest &quot;Movie&quot; movie is by far the worst to date. Not only that, I believe this movie is certainly in the running for worst comedy of the year. The &quot;Movie&quot; movie franchise should have died with the original &quot;Scary Movie&quot;, though I did get a small amount of enjoyment from it&#39;s subsequent sequels.  &quot;Epic Movie&quot; is a spoof comedy that revolves around several popular movie franchises that I suppose could be called epic - though the term is sometimes a stretch. Films such as &quot;Nacho Libre&quot;, &quot;Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory&quot;, &quot;The Chronicles of Narnia&quot;, &quot;The Lord of the Rings&quot;, and YES, even &quot;Snakes on a Plane&quot; make an appearance here. The movie is fueled by terrible writing, and is riddled with awful comedy. On top of everything else, the film is only 75-ish minutes long, which typically wouldn&#39;t be bad except for the 20 minute breakout in the middle of the movie where the faun of &quot;Gnarnia&quot; (Narnia) shows us his house a la MTV&#39;s &quot;Cribs&quot;.  The crude fart humor that this movie consistently pumps out at you is enough to make you want to choke. Essentially, that is all this movie is, as there is no solid plot line to speak of other than 15 minute forays the characters in the movie have with one epic movie to the next. Think of it as the story of four orphans who are kidnapped by Willy Wonka and escape his &quot;evil clutches&quot; by going through a magical wardrobe. I am totally serious.  This movie should rightfully be getting a rating of 0/10, but for the sake of making SOMETHING about this movie funny, I have decided that it deserves 0.002/10. IMDb is requiring I give it at least a &quot;1&quot;, which in my opinion is too high. Honestly it&#39;s that terrible. For those of you who are 12 or younger, or just in general enjoy fart jokes and bad movie references, there might be something here to see. Otherwise, steer clear!"
"Somehow we ended up at this movie, heavily intoxicated. At first I laughed at the slapstick Spanish orphans but then after my second toilet break the old liver kicked in. Very little-no plot, and really it has been done a dozen times before. I enjoyed seeing a few appearances from faces I recognized, however this was short lived after I realized I could also see them in good movies. Though I did wonder after wards why Pirates of the Caribbean needed to get Johnny Depp, this guy was a dead ringer. If you must see this movie, make sure you are extremely drunk, or with an attractive member of the opposite sex, since if nothing else it will make the time go faster."
"Why is it that year after year Hollywood puts out a flood of really cheesy movies disguised as fun spoofs? They are really bad films and to think that this one even got made...  Prime example &quot;Epic Movie&quot; I only found two gags funny and the film sucked, really badly.   I&#39;d put the Scary Movie series in here too except for the very first one which I did find funny but after that they just got worse and worse.... Though the final one was kind of alright because they sent up Tom Cruise and WOTW, but that didn&#39;t redeem it by much.  And in the same light I put &quot;Epic Movie&quot; because it was a waste of both money and time. Which I can&#39;t ever get back.   Avoid this film at all costs.  It&#39;ll be in the $5 DVD bin before too long"
"Personally i thought this film was rather funny and i think the idea of films like this is to be completely stupid and (sorry if i offend anyone)...retarded! I actually like this kind of humour and although most of the film was boring and lagging, i think the funny bits were actually quite funny, like the parody of pirates of the Caribbean, i thought the actor playing captain Jack was simply brilliant and did such a funny impersonation.  In general i don&#39;t think this movie should have been slandered quite as much as it has, it all depends on a persons sense of humour, which in my case is paranormal and a little bit twisted.  I&#39;m sure there are many people out there who agree with me but also many people who don&#39;t, either way i hope most will at least give this film a chance...the parody of &quot;Snakes on a Plane&quot; is particularly funny! Thank You!"
It is rare that I walk out of a movie. I always feel that in order to have an opinion about anything one must experience it in full. But I just couldn&#39;t sit through this empty unfunny slice of sophomoric fluff. It was utterly lacking in any quality that can justify sitting through it. As a big fan of spoofs I am prepared to sit through some predictable satire to get to the really juicy stabs at movie pop culture. But &quot;epic&quot; just cannot deliver the goods. The actors were not very funny or engaging to begin with but the writing weaves a childish story with sorry gags and attempts to bring in hip-hop culture in places where it just doesn&#39;t make sense - and this is in a movie genre where anything goes. My ire at this film extends to saying that it is not really even worthy of renting.
"You cant go into this movie thinking you will be seeing an Oscar winner. You should expect this to be a random and silly teen comedy. If you go into it just expecting this then you will enjoy it. The movie chronicles the journey of four orphans through Gnarnia and their quest to defeat the evil white bitch. It spoofs, Chronicles of Narnia, Charlie and the Chocolate Factory, MTV Cribs, Snakes on a Plane, Pirates of the Caribbean, Harold and Kumar go to White Castle, American Pie, X-Men, Nacho Libre, The DiVinci Code, and several other films. Although there are some less than humorous parts of the film, for the most part it is a rather witty comedy/spoof.But it will only be funny to those who are familiar with the movies it spoofs.It very closely resembled the Scary/Date movies with their random and childish humor.I found it quite funny."
"Walking into a movie with an expectation isn&#39;t the greatest idea, but this was truly disappointing; presumably aimed at early teens and the less intelligent. Typical of these productions, the humour was predictable and not especially clever, relying heavily on cheap gags, silly physical fights or just the plain idea of mocking another movie. Hip Hop comprises the majority of the soundtrack, with some songs re-used throughout. Darrell Hammond&#39;s imitation of Jack Sparrow was quite striking, but I thought the acting was pretty bland otherwise.  Some may argue that the movie is meant to be as cheesy and stupid as it is, that it is the &#39;style&#39;, but I&#39;m so incredibly grateful I didn&#39;t pay to see it."
"i don&#39;t know why people don&#39;t like this movie. it was a normal funny spoof. you just got to have the right sense of humor. my brother only regonizes one part of the movie that was funny to me, but not to him. when you go see these types of movies, everyone in the theatre laughs no matter how corny the jokes are. this is because the only people who want to see these kind of movies understand them. this film was WAY better than date movie, and meet the spartans. im not saying thatit is the best movie in the world...but it was funny and deserves a lot more credit than most people are giving it. go see the movie yourself and decide what side you are on. those who like these movies, and those who don&#39;t. i like these movies."
"The ensemble cast of Epic Movie is a mix of actors with various levels of spoofing ability. In the leads, Penn (Van Wilder 2) is clearly the most adept. He approaches the ridiculous with a knowing level of sarcasm. He&#39;s like, &#39;&#39;It sucks to be in a stupid spoof and I&#39;m going to point it out.&#39;&#39; Mays (TV&#39;s Heroes) plays Lucy as if Forrest Gump were playing mentally challenged. There&#39;s no payoff to her ditziness. Campbell (Date Movie) plays Peter like a prancing, preening wuss. Nobody ever taught him that spoof characters have to play it straight. And Chambers (White Chicks) plays Susan with no personality whatsoever. She&#39;s not even the generically sassy black chick. Spoof veteran Carmen Electra is almost unrecognizable as Mystique, another hot chick in blue, while the Johnny Depp clones are expertly cast, especially Hammond as the effeminate Jack Swallows (Get it?). Glover as the effeminate Willy is also scary. Finally, Fred Willard nearly steals the show as a sex-crazed lion man, while Jennifer Coolidge could pout her lips in a tragedy and still be hilarious."
"This movie is completely terrible. I went to see it thinking about the Scary Movie series and about how funny those where. While I did laugh a few times at this movie I was laughing at how completely horrible it was. If you found Scary Movie and Date Movie to be bad you will probably despise this movie more than the rest of us do. Also a word of advice if you have younger children don&#39;t take them to see it because when I went to see it there was a family with younger kids and they ended up leaving in the middle of the movie it was a good thing they did to because it got worse. Don&#39;t go to see this movie, because if you do I can almost guarantee that you&#39;ll want that 1hr. 30min. of your life back."
"I knew when I saw a parody of the Saturday Night Live bit &quot;Lazy Sunday,&quot; I was in trouble. What is Epic Movie 2 going to have a take off of the &quot;D*ck In A Box&quot; segment? In all actuality though, the movie wasn&#39;t THAT bad. It was far superior to Date Movie, which I walked out of last year. But the movie itself is so short (iMDB says 86 minutes, but it didn&#39;t feel like it even cracked the eighty minute mark) that it didn&#39;t seem worth the price of admission. It actually didn&#39;t give you time to walk out even if you wanted too.  The two (out of six) Scary Movie writers, Friedberg and Seltzer, were hit or miss with their bits. But luckily there were more hits than misses. I&#39;ve got to tell you though; these dudes are OBSESSED with the black rapper and MTV culture. Every other joke is someone having a grill or break dancing or getting &quot;crunk&quot; or being a DJ on a turntable. And in Date Movie they did the &quot;Pimp My Ride&quot; joke, so of course here they&#39;ve got to do the &quot;Cribs&quot; knock off. If you find that kind of thing funny, this ones a can&#39;t miss.  But...I will admit I laughed at quite a few of the bits, and the performers did pretty well. Jayma Mays was spot on with her Anna Faris impersonation, and Kal Penn (who seems like he should have grown past these type of movies by now) was able to hold it all together real nicely...as was the rest of the cast. I wouldn&#39;t recommend seeing this movie in theaters unless you&#39;re extremely bored and need to waste eighty minutes, but I would recommend seeing it when it comes to HBO or Showtime. It&#39;s decent for what it&#39;s suppose to be, but it&#39;s not really worth the price to get in."
"Yes, I went to this movie during the discounted afternoon matin&eacute;e and walked out 45 minutes in. I loved the Scary Movie series and thought I was getting the same when I walked into this movie. Words cannot describe the disaster this movie is. It&#39;s just plain boring. As one of the previous commenters summed up, it will leave you wondering &quot;What did I find so funny in the trailer?&quot; There were a couple places where a joke here and there was somewhat funny, but the writers relentlessly turned what would have been a funny 5 second joke into a 10 minute running gag. Half way in, it just became so boring and repetitive I couldn&#39;t take it any longer.  Kal Penn gave the least crappy performance, or maybe had the least horrible lines, but doesn&#39;t appear to play that big a part in the movie. Everyone else involved in this movie should be deeply ashamed."
"4 Children, Peter, Lucy, Edward and Susan, all find tickets to an epic adventure but they&#39;re soon trapped by Willy Wonka. Soon Lucy finds a wardrobe and steps into the magical world of Gnarnia and eventually the four orphans are battling to save Edward and stop the white bitch!  For those who have seen &quot;Date Movie&quot; and hated it, you would probably not watch this one since it was made by the same filmmakers and expect this movie to be horrible, if not any worse. Well, is it bad? For me, obviously not. It was much better than &quot;Date Movie&quot; and you can tell the filmmakers that they actually changed some of their plans to make this movie funnier. And it is.  I would compare this to &quot;Monty Python&#39;s Holy Grail&quot; because this film has its shares of laughs and unfunny jokes. The good thing is the movie is really quite refreshing in a way. Why? They never actually spoofed fantasy movies before. Does it make a difference? Yes, it does.  What gets better in this movie other than the jokes are the elaborate costumes, the extensive (and wonderful) set designs, special effects, and score, if you care to know about any of that. Although you may think it&#39;s a bigger budget than &quot;Date Movie&quot;, it&#39;s surprisingly the same, if that interests you.  The jokes in here are funny because it mocks other films, makes obvious clich&eacute;s and surprisingly turns them the other way, one continuing joke which I found really funny even if it goes throughout the film, a joke they continued from &quot;Date Movie&quot; (the obvious stunt double and dummy), and the randomness.  The target audience is apparent: Those who have and liked &quot;Date Movie&quot; or have seen the films spoofed in here, including &quot;Nacho Libre,&quot; &quot;The Chronicles of Narnia,&quot; &quot;Harold and Kumar Go to White Castle,&quot; &quot;Charlie and the Chocolate Factory,&quot; the &quot;X-Men&quot; pictures, &quot;Superman Returns&quot;, &quot;The Da Vinci Code&quot;, and a lot more. More or less, put that down to teens.  So, if you&#39;re a wise adult, you probably wouldn&#39;t be surprised not liking this movie. I, on the other hand, am a teen, and it&#39;s not surprising enough that I enjoyed it very much so. Also, I like to applaud Jayma Mays for her very funny role and others like Jennifer Coolidge and Faune A. Chambers.  If you&#39;re a person who doesn&#39;t like stupid comedies with some immature and childish jokes, unlike &quot;Knocked Up&quot;, you should stay very far away from this. Why would you see it? You know what to expect. If you&#39;re a person who&#39;s in their teens or just like to have a good short time, then watch this. There&#39;s no harm to go through it for a short 80 minutes."
"I didn&#39;t know whether to hate this movie right off the bat or give it a small chance. From the looks of the trailer, it looked pretty stupid. I&#39;m a big fan of spoof and I enjoyed all of the Scary Movies. Date Movie was an all out disaster, so I pretended like I didn&#39;t even watch that. So could these two make a comeback?  Kind of and no. I felt that a lot of this movie again involves too much pee and fart jokes and slapstick every second. Some of the spoofs were actually done alright, some didn&#39;t at all. I felt that this was a lot better than Date Movie,but that&#39;s not saying too much. Does it deserve a 2.3? No, not that low, maybe a 4.0 at best. If they do decide to do another spoof, which I guarantee they will do, lets hope its not revolved around someone peeing or throwing up for an attempt at a joke.  4.5/10"
"So, I saw Epic Movie last weekend and while it was no Oscar winner, you have to look at it for what it is. Everyone who is bashing it needs to take a step back and do just that, watch it because it is a no brainer, going for the EASY joke (I use the term &quot;easy&quot; lightly), stupid movie. When a movie doesn&#39;t care about continuity...I mean come on, thats funny! Speaking of Funny, the guy who plays Nacho was spot on and in my opinion one of the best things in that movie! You know what they say about opinions...they&#39;re like (fill in blank), everyone has one! So, IMDb says I have to fill out 10 lines of text...I don&#39;t have that much else to write, but I will do my best. I think the guy who plays Nacho is an actor by the name of Jareb. I&#39;ve seen him on commercials and Entourage...what a great show! Anyway Epic Movie goers, if your not open minded do not see this movie. But, if you like silly slap stick / dumb acting and comedy then go see it."
"I was lucky enough to see an advanced screening..  This movie is sure to get future comments saying its lame, boring and stupid... I don&#39;t agree... Epic Movie is hilarious but is definitely not for everyone.. Don&#39;t walk into the movie theater expecting anything special because you wont get it, However if you walk into the theater looking for a fun experience then Epic Movie will deliver. It spoofs all the blockbusters released over the past 2 years and it does it very well, they are all binded together in a similar way to scary movie 1.  Acting isn&#39;t to bad either..  &quot;Epic Movie&quot; is definitely worth a watch.. So what are you waiting for?"
"Epic movie is a spoof of many different movies. Just a few of the movies that it spoofs are The Da Vinci Code, Snakes on a Plane, Nacho Libre, X- Men: The Last Stand, and Charlie and the Chocolate Factory, But it mostly spoof The Chronicles of Narnia. Epic Movie come from the two of the six writers of Scary Movie who also wrote Date Movie.  Epic Movie is about four kids who wind up up in the land of Gnarnia (Spelled with a &quot;G&quot; for legal reasons). The are needed to defeat the White B&amp;?$# of Narnia.  Epic Movie is very funny and filled with laughs. If you liked Date Movie and The Scary Movie series then you will like Epic Movie without a doubt!!!!"
"Lucas may have problems as a director and writer, but I&#39;ve always thought that those flaws are balanced by his great storytelling ability. The problem with &quot;The Phantom Menace&quot; is that he simply has no story to tell. The film merely adds an introductory chapter to a story that has already been told, and stretches it out into a two-hour movie. It is no accident that prequels of this kind are rare. They are very difficult to make properly. And apparently he&#39;s just not a sophisticated enough filmmaker to pull it off.  For one thing, this project is limited by the fact that anyone familiar with the first trilogy knows the story&#39;s outcome, and it therefore lacks some of the suspense associated with a gradually unfolding saga. More importantly, however, this situation leaves Lucas with very little freedom as a storyteller. It also encourages him to gloss over key events; because their outcome is a foregone conclusion, he forgets to bring them to life.  For example, we know there will eventually be a romance between Anakin and Padme. So Lucas has the two characters meet here and--surprise, surprise--they seem to like each other. Their developing friendship isn&#39;t portrayed that clearly, and their motivations for becoming close aren&#39;t explained. Because Lucas fails to make scenes like these believable, we can&#39;t help being conscious of how he&#39;s manipulating the plot in his effort to connect the two trilogies. Another good example of this problem is Anakin&#39;s portrayal as a potential Jedi. There doesn&#39;t appear to be anything about this kid remotely out of the ordinary, even though the other characters keep talking like there is. Our only reason for thinking he&#39;s special is that the plot requires it.  If the story fails to be engaging, it is because we never see the important events. Lucas makes a fatal error in not showing what&#39;s happening on Naboo, the small planet whose capture is the focus of the plot. Numerous atrocities are supposedly being committed against the planet&#39;s inhabitants, but we only know about this because the characters on screen refer to the events, usually rather woodenly.  The deadpan performances are a problem in themselves, but they only highlight our lack of involvement in the story. Think of Han Solo sweating in fear, then think of the emotional vacuums passing for characters in this film. Whenever any of the characters do express emotion, as in the scene where Anakin and his mom part, it still seems awfully restrained. Somehow, Lucas manages to keep the emotional reactions of his characters to a minimum, which gives the film an almost mechanical feel.  It&#39;s true that &quot;A New Hope&quot; never showed Alderaan&#39;s inhabitants, but we still could feel the tragedy of the planet&#39;s destruction through the horrified reactions of Princess Leia and Obi Wan. Moreover, there were many other involving events which we witnessed directly, such as the slaying of rebels at the beginning; the capture and torture of the princess; and the murder of Luke&#39;s foster parents. Furthermore, the major plot elements were intriguing in and of themselves. They weren&#39;t there merely to show us how they were to be linked to later events, which seems to be the case with the new film.  I suspect that Lucas was not as concerned in the first trilogy with what had to happen later in the story and was therefore able to focus his attention on the events at hand. The weakest segment was &quot;Return of the Jedi,&quot; which had the task of bringing the story to an end. Only then did Lucas start to show signs of forcing plot points. In &quot;The Phantom Menace,&quot; he gets so bogged down in the task of bringing his story from point A to point B that he ends up with only the bare bones of a plot, and none of it comes alive.  This is especially true of the characterization. In the old trilogy, characters like Yoda and Han reveal distinct personalities in their first few minutes on screen. This film goes for more than two hours and the characters, including the familiar ones, come off vague and nondescript. We aren&#39;t given much of a chance to experience their personalities in the way they interact. We must take Qui Gon&#39;s word for it when he describes Obi Wan as &quot;headstrong.&quot; What&#39;s most odd is that the cartoons seem better developed than the humans. The scenes where Qui Gon negotiates with the birdlike slave-owner Watto are amusing and well-done--probably the movie&#39;s best scenes aside from the stunning action sequences--but they can&#39;t hold a candle to the constant interactions throughout the first trilogy.  One thing I cannot do is accuse the film of lacking creativity. The design of the creatures, the technologies, and the planets is impressive. Watching the film is sort of like reading a children&#39;s book that isn&#39;t very good but abounds with beautiful illustrations. There is certainly a &quot;wow&quot; factor in the movie&#39;s visuals, but the effect of it is short-lived.  I get irked when I hear fans talk as though the &quot;Star Wars&quot; movies were never about anything beyond special effects. While the inventive visuals are part of what made the originals so revolutionary, they&#39;re not what made the films so fun to watch. And in no way can they explain the trilogy&#39;s continuing popularity today. After all, many of the original effects look primitive by today&#39;s standards, and their novelty has certainly worn off. Only an enduring and compelling storyline could have allowed the first three films to become the classics they&#39;re almost universally acknowledged to be."
"This movie is a perfect example of when what could have been one of the most brilliant movies ever is made, through the incompetence of only one man, into one of the worst.  I cannot list in detail the number of ways this movie could have been made better, and they are all mind-bogglingly simple and all George Lucas's fault.  Even so, I will try to condense them into a short list.  1. Actors/Casting - I have to give all of the actors credit for this because I know they tried their best, even Jake Lloyd.  The movie did not give me a single reason why I should have cared for any of the characters and I can't explain why I did anyway.   I can't count how many times people have told me how much better Haley Joel Osment would have been in the role, and I am almost inclined to agree with them.  Supposedly there's something dark and ominous about the Anakin character that all of the Jedi council can see, after all, he's gonna be Darth Vader, right?  Osment projects that fear which leads to anger which leads to etc., and Lloyd just looks like your run-of-the-mill blond California Cabbage Patch kid.  I'd call Jake Lloyd a terrible actor if it weren't for what the great sci-fi writer Orson Scott Card, who personally knows Lloyd, observed: &quot;Jake Lloyd's a good actor, and it's a pity you didn't get to see that on-screen, since he had no direction or screenplay.  In the same way, Liam Neeson is a great actor, but you didn't see that onscreen because he had no direction or screenplay.&quot;  Which brings me to my second fault:  2. Direction - Let's face it, George Lucas has lost it.  He has gone from the great actors' director he was when he made American Graffiti to a special effects artist gone wildly out of control.  I do give him some credit: It takes a lot of deliberate effort to sap all of the energy and life out of Ewan McGregor.  3. Screenplay/Plot - This is the section that really makes me wince, and proves that there is nobody left in Hollywood with the courage to tell George Lucas that he can't write.  I mean, logical inconsistencies aside, this dialogue is simply ridiculous.  If a first-grader were called in as a script consultant, he could most likely have improved this movie.   There are a thousand instances of questionable logic in this movie like, why did Queen Amidala reveal herself when she did?  Why did she want to go back to Naboo so badly if it would do no good whatsoever and she would probably just get killed?  Are we supposed to believe that a ten year old is going to have twins with her eventually?  Why is she called a Queen anyway, if Naboo is supposed to be a democracy?  Do the natives of Naboo share one collective brain cell to elect a teenager to run their planet?  And what kind of name is Naboo anyway?  Beyond that, it doesn't even make sense in terms of the rest of the established Star Wars universe.  For example, the shields that repelled blaster fire, obviously added so the death count would be lower and they could appeal to the 'family' market.  Why do we not see them in the later episodes, when they seem to be of immeasurable tactical value?  As for the so-called 'Phantom Menace' conspiracy, does the initiation into the Jedi knighthood include an IQ curtailment?  Why didn't those clods figure out at once that Palpatine was behind it all along?  In the end, I found myself rooting for Palpatine/Sidious, simply because he was geometrically more intelligent than any of the other characters and would probably do a pretty good job of ruling the universe.  At least he would be a better emperor than George Lucas is a screenwriter.  Well, it seems that I didn't do a very good job at condensing, but oh well.  I am ashamed to say that I saw this movie three times and hated it more each time.  That it has grossed over $400 million makes me wonder that the entire American society doesn't grind to a halt as soon as someone sees a bright shiny object.  Did I mention that the special effects were too amazing for their own good?"
"The main line of defence seems to be: lighten up, it's just entertainment / just a kid's movie / just a special effects flick.  Pausing awhile to note that people who run this line of defence have all but conceded that the film is, in fact, bad, let's take these points one by one - shall we?  As entertainment it's poor.  Dialogue is flat and perfunctory (don't expect to be dazzled by repartee); the story lacks the beauty of the first Star Wars film and the tension of the second ... and then there's the magical `character development' everyone complains about.  We must distinguish character development from character delineation.  The former is nice, but the latter is absolutely essential, and it's the latter that's missing from `The Phantom Menace'.  Jar Jar, the young Obi Wan, Darth Maul, Armidala, Annakin - all are scarcely characters at all, and are very difficult to get enthused about.  Jar Jar in particular is a collection of mannerisms, nothing more.  This lack of character doesn't just prevent the film from becoming the darling of the intellectuals - it makes it dull.  There are hundreds more entertaining films.  Only those people who entered the cinema carrying plastic light sabers, grimly determined to enjoy themselves, failed to notice this.  It's a kid's movie.  Well, yes, in a sense - but not a good sense.  Good children's movies form a proper subset of good movies - simply because adults have access to all childhood emotions and desires, but not vice versa.  So in one sense a `kid's movie' is just a movie that can be understood and apperaciated by children (as well as adults).  Is this a kid's movie in that sense?  Maybe.  But it's also a kid's movie in the bad sense: it's deeply witless, and inexperienced children might - I say, MIGHT - fail to notice just how witless it is.  Children may - I say, MAY - ignore the fact that Jar Jar Binks is a deeply irritating non-character because he is all colour and movement and he speaks funny.  Is this really all we want?  Special effects.  These aren't so hot, either.  George Lucas has fallen in love with computers and failed to notice that his digital animals don't move at all in the way that real animals move - worse still, they don't move like any kind of physical object at all.  Nor do most of the alleged physical objects.  Compare the trundling white juggernaut at the start of `Star Wars' - a convincingly solid model - with the insubstantial collection of pixels that darts past us at the start of `The Phantom Menace'.  The special effects have actually deteriorated, and to make matters worse, there are more of them.  So the defence that `The Phantom Menace' is allowed to be a poor movie because it really wasn't trying to be something great in the first place, just won't wash.  Especially so, given the ludicrous claims George Lucas has arrogantly made, again and again.  So Jar Jar Binks is the first digitally created main character?  Rubbish - the dragon in `Dragonheart' predates it (and, one might add, is at the very least a genuine character).  So George Lucas is pioneering a new kind of filming-making, more like painting and less like photography, than the old?  Absolute twaddle - Walt Disney did THAT in the 1930s.  I'll tell you what IS new.  Never before has there been so much sizzle, and so little sausage."
"I'm sure everyone has heard all their friends, relatives, and random passerbys gripe over the immense waste of computer generated imagery known as Jar-Jar Binks, but I just can't help it.  No movie character has ever driven me to the brink of tongue chomping, teeth gnashing psychosis like that floppy eared moron.  I cannot understand why this creature (which appears to be the combination of a four-year-old, Carribbean native, a mutated guppy, and that weird dragon/dog thing from Neverending Story with bigger lip implants) is even included.  All he manages to do is p*** people off while at the same time manage to avoid death every moment due to some undeserved luck.  So many times I found myself praying that one of the Jedis would just draw their saber and silence the fish-man forever. Unfortunately, the Jedi code restricts such action, proving that the dark side is much more agreeable.  Jar-Jar, as horribly evil as he may be, is not the only thing to dislike about this movie.  Who knows why, but Lucas must have decided that people who go to movies only go to movies because they wish to escape a world full of text images, and thus most of the different alien races in Episode 1 speak english, limiting the use of subtitles.  Hey, that's not too bad right?  Well, wait till you hear the Trade Federation honchos that sound like over-exaggerated Japanese-Americans.  Oh, and don't forget the Gungans that remind me of, no offense, a Jamaican with a brain defect.  Since today's illiterate audiences can't muster the mind power to read basic lines to begin with, let's make the characters speak english in horribly offensive accents.  It's just more immense annoyances that make me want to microwave my brain until I drool myself to death.  Speaking of annoying, how about that kid who plays Anakin Skywalker, the focus of the three prequels?  Here we have a nine-year-old child who can build things that NASA could only fantasize about, and who tackles such massive sociological issues such as world peace (except multiplied by 100 billion to equal galaxy peace).  In case you were unaware, Anakin is destined to be Darth Vader, so I understand that Lucas wanted Anakin to appear as a good-hearted soul, but boy does he lay it on thick.  Thank you George, I get it, he's sweeter than one of those gigantic lolipops you find at Disneyland, and we should all weep at this boy's impending peril.  I can't tell you how many times I wanted to slap that kid.  It is far too difficult to make a pre-teen appear to be 35.  I just see a spoiled little runt that rocket scientists would envy, yet for some reason we are supposed to care that this adorable little sandy haired genius is doomed to the dark side (which I determined earlier is much more agreeable than all that good Jedi stuff).  Think of all the trouble that would have been saved if Obi-Wan had just smote him on sight.  Episode 1 is so ridiculously annoying that I couldn't even pay attention to the highly ornate special effects.  I could care less how seamless Jar-Jar looks.  Why can't he just shut up?  And Anakin, you can stop bragging any time about your wonderful science projects and immeasurable I.Q.  If only you could see into the future.  You might weep as much as I did after suffering through this sci-fi fantasy turned horrendous pile of steaming poo.  Sorry George, maybe next time."
"I have been a 'Star Wars' fan since first seeing it back in 1977 at the age of thirteen. I've seen 'A New Hope' at least twenty times, 'The Empire Strikes Back' about a dozen, and 'Return of the Jedi' more than once. I've read many of the novels and to this day still collect toys and action figures. I spent eight hours in line for tickets and a seat, finally seeing 'The Phantom Menace' on the first day at 3:00 AM. I desperately wanted to like it, and made every attempt to make allowances and keep an open mind.  But I couldn't do it. It was just too pathetic.  Had this movie been made by someone else, I might not be so critical. But George Lucas has always insisted that cutting-edge effects are secondary to a good story. Too bad someone close to him doesn't remind him of this. I've heard Lucas say he hates to write. Well, it shows. Most scenes are just tedious, obligatory filler material between spectacular effects sequences. Rather than illustrate character through action and behavior, the script delegates that task to other characters to say aloud.  Even though the first movies appealed to both children and adults, many defend 'The Phantom Menace' by saying it was made just for kids. But I find it hard to imagine children caring about trade disputes. And the level of violence is more suitable for teens and adults. Besides, how will these children in the audience react in a few years when their hero 'Ani' grows up, turns evil and kills everyone?  Perhaps George Lucas' biggest crime is his attempt to explain the Force in scientific terms. This not only contradicted what had been established in the other films, but it eliminated the one thing that distinguished 'Star Wars' from standard science fictions films - an element of fantasy.  Although all the archetypes of the original are here: a wide-eyed youth, a wise mentor, an alien sidekick and a royal damsel in distress, this time it doesn't work. Keen characters and witty dialog have been replaced by potty humor and pratfalls. This will be the last 'Star Wars' film I ever see."
"I never thought that a movie with 3 consecutive climaxes could still lull you to sleep. The &quot;dream makers&quot; that are responsible for this sacrilege are more concerned with mass appeal than with the prospect of an innovative story and endearing characters. So please before you e-mail me and tell me what a great work of art this supposed movie is go back and watch episodes 4,5,&amp;6. Compare them to episode 1 and then you can save yourself the $20 on the next two movies."
"I went to see Episode 1 for the fact it was Star Wars, but I have never seen such a pile of crap ever. Poor acting, not aided by the most lifeless and limp script, which gave basic plot details, before being shoved out of the way for the stupid CGI effects. Jar Jar Binks was a disaster, and probably damaged the reputation of this shambles even more. I have never seen such a prime example of commercialism and hype to make a movie a success, it is an insult to young director's who can not raise a measly budget to make their films. This should be trashed, along with the Star Wars tag that accompanies it and made it such a hit."
"This movie is what happens when special effects take precedence over the story. The plot was ridiculous, the script awful, and the dialogue laughable. A cast of broomsticks could have delivered a less wooden performance than was delivered by the cast of the Phantom Menace (Maybe we'll put this down to an atrociously bad director as Liam Neeson, Natalie Portman, at least, *can* act -- but they showed no sign of it in this film.)  A total waste of 4.50 and 2-3 hours of my life."
"I feel taken. There is no kinder way to put that. Preparing to see the prequel to some of the most epic films that have been made, I, along with most of the world, became excited at the prospect of a new chapter in the saga. A new chapter that promised to have both the charm and aura of the old while incorporating the new technology of the day. However, instead of the addition of new digital techniques to the epic story, we have the REPLACEMENT thereof.  Take, for instance, the idea of a completely digital character. In the words of Ian Malcolm, Jeff Goldblum's character in Jurassic Park, &quot;Your scientists were so concerned with whether they could do it that they didn't stop to think if they should do it.&quot; Granted, Jar Jar ButtMonkey would have been far less intrusive (say, only as much as a proctological exam) were he not so abrasive and his voice less like the experience of simultaneously chewing aluminum foil and scraping your nails across a blackboard while a band of dwarven accordionists march in clockwise fashion around you playing an atonal interpretational montage of Bette Midler's greatest hits.  As far as the rest of the story goes, yes, the Pod Racing and the Light Sabre fight scenes are impressive, but they are not the story. They are simply moments. What we are left with after that is a weak attempt to recapture the audience that IV, V, and VI enthralled. On point, Lucas dialogue has always been ponderous, at best (revisit some of Princess Leah's lines from the originals if you disagree). In truth, he doesn't fail to return on that promise, but the lines do not come off with the same charm that the first movies held; indeed, how could they when the lines themselves are delivered with two-by-four accuracy? I submit the first scene between Amidala and Anakin in the shop of the slave-keeper. The scene is contrived, and the dialogue hollow. The characters are not talking to each other, they are making speeches at one another. Similarly, the scene that should make even the most ardent supporter of Lucas nod a tired nod of acceptance that, yes, this scene needed work: &quot;I care for you.&quot; Any who have seen the movie know the scene I refer to and can hardly deny the malcontrusion of character and story that forced that line from Anakin prematurely in his relationship with Amidala.  I could go on: why try to scientifically explain the ability to use the Force; why demystify what had once been referred to as an &quot;ancient RELIGION&quot;? I don't mind the allegorical reference to the Christ story (anyone who could not see the parallels in the original movies was asleep), but I do not need the thinly vieled reference to mitochondria that serves as the basis for the most potent power in the universe. Just let it be. Let it be felt rather than explained.  My only hope, this film's only saving grace is that it is just a setup for II and III. However, maybe I have already seen II and III and don't know it. Maybe if I use the Lucas Plot-Planner 2000 I can come up with what is going to happen in those films before they are released...  Opening: Sinister scene showing ultimate evil-doers planning their ultimately evil things. Spice With: Chase scene (speeders, pod racers, etc.) Include: Yoda Climax: Light sabre duel (Vader and Obi Wan, Vader and Luke, Obi Wan and Darth Maul) or Death Star of some reincarnation."
"(&gt;_&lt;) I'm not the biggest fan of SW, found parts of this film, visually neat, but then acting is WOODEN, completely banal dialog kinda a like:  Space is cold. I care about you alot. I guess.  eh? What was Lucus thinking? This awful dialog, and a mash of a thrown together storyline, it seemed like an overblown mess, this movie is the second highest grossing film of all time? Proof that fluffy pointlessness rises to the top. Want sci-fi? Go watch something else.  5.6/10"
"I'm not a Star Wars fan and I have not seen the other Star Wars movies. But, I don't need to see them to know that this is one of the worst movies ever made. Jar Jar Binks and Anakin (Jake Lloyd) are the most annoying characters I have ever seen on screen. I will never understand why George Lucas decided to cast Jake Lloyd as Anakin. His acting is awful in this movie. Natalie Portman as Queen Amidala is no better. I won't even mention Jar Jar Binks. We all know how pathetic he was. In short; the plot is lame, the acting is awful, and the effects are OK. The effects alone could not save this film. If you have not seen this poor excuse for a movie, then don't bother renting it. Save your money for coffee or something. Out of 10 I give this movie 1.  1/10"
This movie was made only for the money it was going to make... you can tell. It was long and really boring. Like with the pod scene it was so long and you knew he was going to win.  And that kid they picked to play young Vader was so bad.  Avoid this movie! Only true Star Wars fans will like it because they can't see that this is a horrible movie! Ay bendito! It was also long and boring.  SO bad that you will not want to see the next one.  Rating 1/10 Effects were about a 6
"The day I went to see this back in the summer of 1999, aged 15, was the day I felt my innocence shattered. I had so greatly been looking forward to this film and was so excited to have a Star Wars I could call my own (as in made in my generation) only to be given this piece of garbage.  The actors, including heavy weights like Liam Neeson and Samuel L. Jackson, up and comers Natalie Portman, and gradually progressing into leading man status Ewan McGregor, are all wasted here. Neeson, McGregor and Jackson are OK but OK is all they are, but they don't stand out at all, nor does Portman. All I can say of Jake Lloyd is that he looks like he's having fun. Then there's Jar Jar Binks, ARGH. What was Lucas thinking? And poor Darth Maul got killed before we had a chance to get to know him.  But what's most offensive of all, aside from the lifeless/passionless acting, are the continuity errors. All these years we were led to believe that Obi-Wan (McGregor) risked a lot to make Anakin a Jedi Knight, but here Obi-Wan's little more than a 2nd banana lurking in the background, while Qui-Gon Jinn (Neeson) is at the front line doing what he can to get Anakin ahead, and it's just wrong. That was what hurt me the most, the fact that the film wasn't about Obi-Wan, that it didn't adhere to previous Star Wars history.  And Episode 2, alas, isn't that big of an improvement."
"The first time I saw this film I was impressed.  Sure Jar Jar was annoying but the action was enough to keep me interested and I was anxious to find out how the Empire would be formed.  After watching it a second time, knowing the action that would take place, I listened carefully to the dialogue.  Again, Jar Jar's mangled English was of course annoying.  The new thing I really noticed was that none of the characters seemed to really know what they were doing in the movie.  The dialogue was awful and the hinted &quot;relationship&quot; between Anakin and his babysitter at the end was sick and wrong.  Natalie Portman was a disappointing Queen Amidala as Lucas' misguided attempts at multiculturalism transformed her into some Japanese princess whose personality was so wooden, it made Al Gore look like Ronald Reagan.  If Lucas was trying for a new Princess Leia, he found the wrong actress.  Leia in the original Star Wars delivers her lines with wit and spark.  Amidala delivers her lines in an utterly boring and unconvincing monotone.  Jake Lloyd is the worst actor of the bunch, however as cute little Anakin Skywalker (affectionately called Anny by everyone).  Do metachlorines cause bad acting?  That may explain why young &quot;Anny&quot; treats the scene where he is leaving his mother behind like he is going out on a campout  (Gee mom, can I go?)  That would also explain why young Anakin expresses his &quot;love&quot; for Amidala at the end....&quot;Space is cold.  I care for you alot.   I guess.   Can I have some ice cream?....(if that doesn't make you gag, nothing will).  Maybe the fear Yoda sensed in Anakin was the fear that after this he'll never get another acting job again.  Possible deleted scene on the DVD release:  Amidala:  Stop that.  Anakin: Stop what?  Amidala:  My hands are dirty.  Anakin:  My hands are dirty too.  We've been finger painting all day, remember?  Amidala:  I happen to like nice men.  Anakin:  I know I am a bad boy.  You need more bad boys in your life.  Amidala:  Kiss me!  Anakin:  Okay but will you read me a bedtime story afterwards?  You are the greatest babysitter/girlfriend ever!  It must be the metachlorines.  Maybe Lucas has an especially high count himself.   Overall grade:  C+."
"Am I the only person who watched this movie and wasn't buffaloed by the great special effects.  I am a huge Star Wars fan, but man this movie really sucked.  Sure the scenery, costumes, and special effects were all top notched and they really did give the viewer the feel of the stars wars movie's, but the acting and story are amazingly bad.  I have watched the movie several times, and I still don't understand why the trade federation (a group of chinese toad people) feel the need to invade the peaceful planet of Naboo.  Well they do attack and the princess of Naboo must esacpe with two jedi.  They meet up with some uncharismatic little kid (anakin skywalker, who is like 7 in this movie, and eventually gets Natalie Portman-the princess pregnant with luke and leia, don't pay attention to the fact Natalie Portman is 18 in this movie, they are replacing the actor of anakin in stars wars episode 2 with an older kid, why not have the foresight for this in the first place)  The movie is just plain stupid.  The robots look weak and flimsy, and they stutter.  The spaceships have lost all of the charm and individuality compared to the first three movies.  The end is so anti-climatic.  This trade federation sends in a horde of robot troops to conquer the planet.  The gungans (a native race of naboo) accidentally stumble around and blow up a lot of robots, but the ultimate slap in the face is when the seven year old Anakin, stumbles upon a spaceship, accidently turns in on, unwittingly flys into space and it just so happens that all the robots on the planet (thousands upon thousands) are controlled by one master ship, and little Anakin accidently fires a missile and coincidentally blows up the master ship.  I am actually angry at how bad this movie was because it has jaded such a great set of movies, by adding this with the other great movies, they are all somehow dirtied by it.  I am done ranting, thanks."
"Can't say enough bad things about this movie. I came out of the cinema after yawning all the way thru bored and angry that I got sucked into forking out $2.50. Never before have I seen so many weak elements combined into one movie. I have talked to apparently intelligent people about this movie and the only common factor I can find is they were all hooked on the original Star Wars thing. Which only proves the old biblical proverb, 'get em while they're young'..."
"I think a lot of people giving this movie rave reviews are probably in some sort of denial -- after waiting 20 years for the prequel to the (frankly excellent) Star Wars Trilogy, they just cannot come to terms with the fact that this movie is, frankly awful.  It's not just that Jar Jar is annoying, it's not just that Darth Maul is poorly developed and a thinly-veiled aim at the toys market, it's not just that the &quot;mitichlorians&quot; (or however you spell it) is one of the most ridiculous (and unnecessary) story devices of all time, it's not just that this movie could have been a masterpiece for all ages but instead was only palatable by the under-ten crowd or the terminally brand-loyal.  But all of these things combined to create a landmark to disappointment that will stand for all ages.  Oh well...here's hoping Episode II is a step back in the right direction."
"This film is a very poor result of months of hype of which it is worth about 1/100th. Only Star wars nuts should see this. The Only quite good thing about it was George Lucas' special effects, which deserve some credit. Bring back the days when you concentrated on acting, not hype."
"When I heard Lucas was going to make THREE MORE STAR WARS MOVIES I was really excited.  Then as I started thinking about it I realized that the true and original trilogy was just about perfect.  Would these new films mess all of that up?  My sister said, don't worry it's George Lucas.  I thought about that and was then fully reassured that the new films would be great. When I did go to the movie I was shocked.  It (to me) didn't have any star wars feel to it.  I was at one time a star wars freak.  I think most people go through that stage and then are fans for life.  Some however, are diehard fans. They will stick by Lucas's side through it all.  I am just a fan and was very disappointed in STAR WARS, Episode one.  The acting was terrible, the special effects were way overdone and Lucas lost my faith.  Now those fans who liked phantom menace may be saying that I am no true fan saying this about a star wars movie.  Well, Maybe it's this star wars movie that's saying i am not a real fan. Sorry George. --Adios  P.S. I was also pretty mad that he took one of the best lines from the original trilogy and put into his cash machine movie.  The line is, a jawa saying, &quot;HOODENIE!&quot;"
"Never been a STAR WARS fan and I fail to see what the fuss was about with the original trilogy , but I`m shocked as to how even the most die hard fan could have enjoyed this movie . In fact I`ll be even more blunt - I`m surprised as to how the film company allowed George Lucas to release this movie !  First of all there`s absolutely no coherance to the script . The first 25 minutes are composed of characters escaping from CGI monsters only to be confronted by other CGI monsters ( Is this why it`s called THE PHANTOM MENACE ? ) then some vague mention of trade wars then it`s back onto the FX again . Not that the FX are up to much even the explosions are obviously done by CGI , no technical triumphs here . And the other technical aspects are very poor especially the editing . Has everyone failed to notice the tme discrepancys between scenes ? We see one character captured by war droids then it cuts to another scene which seems to last several minutes then it cuts back to the war droid scene where it seems no time has passed at all. THE PHANTOM MENACE is full of this haphazard editing which leads me to believe it wasn`t edited at all. But the two things that really got my goat were the war driods and the acting .  First of all the war driods are complete wimps ( And yes they are CGI ) I mean we have about three dozen droids armed with lazer guns trying to kill a couple of Jedi knights armed with light sabres . Guess who wins ? Correct . This lack of a credible enemy undermines an already poor film where we know that our heros will never be in serious danger now matter how many driods they come up against . A few people have made similar complaints about FELLOWSHIP OF THE RINGS , but the enemy in FELLOWSHIP have identical weapons whereas here the good guys are heavily outgunned as well as being heavily outnumbered and it`s laughable to watch a small handfull of people waving their light sabres against hundreds of well armed droids.  Secondly the acting . We can sit here and discuss what &quot; Bad &quot; acting is . For me the worst type of acting is wooden acting . Gasp in amazement as a host of well regarded stars read their lines as if they`re reading out a shopping list . Neeson is wooden , Jackson and Stamp make no impact but worst of all is Portman whose performance is so bad it has to be seen to be believed and which left me scratching my head puzzled as to why she got payed for her performance . The only two performances that stuck out was Frank Oz and Ewan McGregor and even then that`s down to his implaceble irritating accent.  And before anyone accuses me of not liking the fantasy genre I will say I absolutely loved FELLOWSHIP OF THE RING and will be booking my ticket to see THE TWO TOWERS when its released . New Line Cinema know a masterpiece when they fund one"
"I'm so sorry folks, I really, really loved the trilogy myself, but you gotta admit it: THIS ONE IS THE WORST!  Lucas. You own Star Wars, and you mess it up with your chewing gum commercial kids and cute Jamaican aliens. Ambitionless and decadent, you've forgotten how to direct.  Thus, my first (and biggest) disappointment was that the long, grand scenes (like the trilogy's first scene with the Emperor, etc)weren't present. Why they're gone? Because they're expensive, and they take TIME to shoot.  IV/V/VI are action for teenagers, and film art as well. Of course, we all saw them first when we were, like, 8 years old, but then it was SO cool to see violent, scary movies made for teens! This doesn't have that magic at all!  Jar-Jar: YOUSA SUCK! We all know that Jar-Jar is a CGC. It doesn't look at all real when the Jedis talk to him, and none of his movements are realistic. Why all the BAD CG? Jurassic Park CG is much more convincing!  Anakin: Yeah. You're such a cool little kid with NO acting talent. See you in the next &quot;Home Alone&quot;-movie. The racing scenes were boring in rel to VI's &quot;forest scooters&quot;.  I'VE GOT TO ADMIT:  * The Princess ruled bigtime. Grand. Beautiful! Excellent!! * Darth Maul was a nice evil character. I loved the light staff. (And I don't mean the staff at Industrial Light &amp; Magic) * The revelation of the senator as the future emperor. * Having seen VI, I know that Anakin is finally killed. Whew!  These few pluses make it worthwhile to wait for II and III.  This is a mediocre film. Other SW fans; I know some of you slept outside the cinemas for days, but please, don't pretend that this is a good SW.  You're only stomping all over the brilliant three."
"Couldn't stand it. This is filmmaking at its very worse. Lucas is a very one-dimensional writer/director. It worked for the first couple of films. Not really science fiction, just action with a lot of cool gadgets and a basic good vs.evil plot.  This was terrible. I gave up after the first 20 minutes. My intelligence  was insulted. I had no interest in the characters, or the story. A trade war? Huh? and the special effects were nauseating. Why hire all those expensive actors? Just animate the humans too.  Doesn't matter how lame it is, these star wars fans will go see it anyway and give it 10 stars on the IMDb. If you take away the 10s, this movie would average about a 5. Well, now they can go buy some new star wars dolls to play with"
George Lucas really started losing his touch as an artist in Return of the Jedi.  It seems he puts more and more emphasis on the business side of movie making.  I can't wait till the next Star Wars toys start coming out a year in advance.  The plot is terrible.  We never know why the Trade Federation is taking over Naboo.  We don't know why  Darth Sideous (aka Palpatine) wishes to do business with the Trade Federation.  The character development is dreadful.  I think Darth Maul says 3 lines in the entire movie.  At the end of the movie I feel very little loathing or dread from him.  Jar Jar Binks is the most annoying character.  Enough said.  Its too bad that Lucas can't be as creative as some of the other Star Wars books and Dark Horse Comics.
"I can't believe how complete awful The Phantom Menace was! This film had no plot, originality, or storyline. The film had the most BORING characters with the exception of Jar Jar Binks who is quite possibly the most annoying, childish, and irritating character ever to be shown on a big screen.   The Matrix deservedly won four Oscars over the awards that The Phantom Menace was nominated for making TPM the first Star Wars film to NOT win a single academy award. Also, the numerous Razzie (Worst of the year) awards just goes to show how awful this film was.  The Phantom Menace feels NOTHING like the classic Star Wars trilogy. Let's hope that Episodes II (Attack of the Clones) and III (Fall of the Republic?) are a 1000 times better than the complete travesty that is The Phantom Menace! One on a scale of 1-10 and that's because I'm a HUGE Star Wars fan, just not a TPM fan!"
"After Lucas' mentor Joseph Campbell passed away, Lucas lost all sense of real mythmaking and reverted to playground mentality. The plot of this film could have been told in 20 minutes at the beginning of a much better movie. The rest of the film is padded with whopper FX that are supposed to make us ignore the fact that the movie is terribly flimsy.  Furthermore, Lucas' choice of the boy to play the future Darth Vader was so far off target as to make the film turn into a cartoon. This boy would be better suited to toothpaste commercials. Consider how much better the film might have been if this one part had gone to the boy who made us really believe THE SIXTH SENSE.  This movie is such a radically lower grade piece of storytelling that it lessens the eloquence of the original STAR WARS trilogy. Hopefully, Lucas will get back into focus before rolling parts 2 and 3 off the FX assembly line."
"A Phantom Menace is a victim of poor directing/writing on Lucas's part. Rather than providing an introduction to the Star Wars saga, the film drops you into the middle of a conflict that's not properly unfolded(hence the long intro to the movie), and revolves around a battle that, while a good story on its own, has nothing to do with the Star Wars films we know and love.  This is particularly disappointing because what else there is in the movie is really quite good. The whole background of Anakin Skywalker is excellent (the future Darth Vader starting out as a slave boy on a remote planet is brilliance), and his introduction to the Jedi Council is a bittersweet moment seasoned with dramatic irony. There is also the introduction of the Sith, Coruscant, the Senate and, of course, the Jedi, which are mentioned or referred to numerous times in the original trilogy, but never fully revealed.  The special effects, while impressive, are only a taste of what will come in the next two prequels: incredible abuse of the CGI technology Lucas has at his fingertips. Nevertheless, the space battles are akin to what we're familiar with, the pod racing is an instant classic, and the lightsaber duels are breathtaking.  In spite of the high points of the film, The Phantom Menace is a real disappointment. It's a clunky &quot;introduction&quot; that is odd compared to the original trilogy no matter how you look at it, littered with cheesy lines, bad costumes, bad directing, things thrown in only for nostalgia's sake (C-3P0 really should not have been in this movie), contradictions to the original films, and of course, Jar-Jar. But Gungans or no Gungans, this film can only be seen as bitter medicine that must be swallowed by Star Wars fans. Fortunately, the prequels get slightly better as they go on, but they still stand best as a separate trilogy, no matter how desperately Lucas tries to tie the two together."
"Let me just start off by saying, SHAME ON YOU GEORGE LUCAS!  How could you take such a wonderful franchise, the STAR WARS saga, and create such a horrific atrocity?  How dare you violate your fans like this?  EPISODE 1 is by far the most vile and retarded science fiction movie I have ever seen.  This movie proved a very strange theory for us all, and that is, that there is no limit to how much money and technology you can expend on a single movie and yet create an end product that is worse than even the lowest budget attempts.  EPISODE 1 assaulted every sense of taste and decency that an average person would have.  The plot of the movie is paper thin and yet over-written.  It basically revolves around this SITH lord who using the Trade Federation to exploit some people who live on a peaceful planet.  Some Jedis come along to negotiate peace and the Sith takes the opportunity to try to assasinate them.  Along the way they encounter what must be the most ludicrous and annoying character in cinematic history, Jar Jar Binks, who is a poorly done computer generated monstrosity that attempts to provide comic reliefe for the movie.  His jokes are not funny and most of his lines, including his accent, are racially offensive.  He clearly speaks with a Jamaican accent and refers to the two WHITE Jedis as &quot;his massa.&quot;  He is not the only character in this pile of garbage to be racially offensive, the evil &quot;fish people&quot; of the trade federation deliver their ametuerish lines in an Asian accent.  Anyway, the two Jedis come across an INCREDIBLY annoying little boy named Anakin and blah, blah, blah, blah.  Are you bored reading my review yet?  You should thank me!  This is actually better than the movie!  The movie is so poorly written it defies description.  It is on par with your average television Soap Opera.  The lines are banal at best, offensive at their worst, and generally just boring.  The special effects are supposed to be top-of-the-line, ground-breaking, but they are actually just cartoonish.  The over-all look of the movie is what I would call &quot;Anime gone bad.&quot;  Let me point out one aspect of the film that actually bothered me more than any of the other attrocities.  The action-oriented conflict of the movie revolves around one loan bad guy named Darth Maul who is chasing down the Jedis, Obi-Wan and Qui Gon.  He chases them through part of the movie and this sets up the big final fight scene, the show down between them, climaxing in an over-the-top light sabre duel to the death.  One quick criticism:  When did the Jedis start learning Kung Fu?  I guess the Jedi counsel must have gotten a copy of THE MATRIX at some point.  The light sabre fights in the first three movies were much more exciting.  The problem with the light sabre duel in Episode 1, however, is not so much in the choreography, but the premise of the fight itself.  Why is Darth Maul so emphatically chasing the Jedis?  Simply because his master told him to. That is a major lack in character motivation. Why does he attack them both at the same time?  This OBVIOUSLY puts him at a disadvantage.  And this is the real problem.  The end fight is Qui Gon and Obi Wan teaming up against Darth Maul.  This makes Darth Maul the UNDERDOG in the movie!  And audiences always root for the underdog!  So this totally deflates the excitement right from the start.  Not to mention, its pretty stupid of Darth Maul to do this, and it is also not very sinister.  If he was really on &quot;the dark side&quot; of the force, would he not wait and attack his prey when they are at a real disadvantage?  Wouldn't that at least be smarter?  And it would make the audience hate him more.  Instead, the audience is not given any such motive on which to base their dislike for Darth Maul.  But hey, he wears black, so I guess he must be evil!  That is LAME!  An audience needs character development in order to really get in to the movie.  Darth Maul is not developed AT ALL!  His story amounts to a scene where his master tells him to go kill the Jedis, and then he attacks the Jedis who escape, and then finally he fights them at the end, and that's it.  This was VERY POORLY DONE!  What I believe happened is, George Lucas simply got too big for his own good.  He had too much power and not enough motivation to try harder. When he first made STAR WARS A NEW HOPE, he was really a struggling film maker. He was FORCED to re-work his script, time and time again, making it better and better.  Experimenting with what works and does not work.  The pressure was on to prove himself.  But these days, what does he have to prove?  He is litterally the wealthiest man in Hollywood.  Why waste his time STRIVING for perfection?  What difference did it make to him what the end product of the film amounted to?  It made no difference.  And in fact, the film totally sucked, and yet made a ton of money world wide.  Why?  Simply because he exploited the devoted fans like myself.  This go around, we are the ones who suffered for Lucas' mistakes, not him.  And now, he has gone on to make the next installment, EPISODE 2, which no doubt be just as bad if not WORSE than EPISODE 1.  I would not normally think that a movie could actually be BELOW the low point that EPISODE 1 sank to, but George shocked me and taught me a lesson:  if there is a new low point, he will find it.  And so it seems, EPISODE 2 will in fact exceed 1 in SUCK-i-tude.  Its almost as if he is trying to make the movie worse, he isn't even bothering to shoot it on FILM! And after viewing the trailer for the new movie, it is OBVIOUS that it was shot on Hi Def Video.  Which, by the way, make no mistake, LOOKS LIKE VIDEO! Again, this is substandard to the tradition set forth by the earlier Star Wars films.  Shame on you George Lucas!  You should have backed off from this project like you did with Empire Strikes Back.  Irvin Kershner should have been brought in to bail out the new Star Wars projects.  And on that note, is it any real surprize that Empire was the BEST of all the Star Wars movies? Hmmm, could it have anything to do with the fact that George Lucas had almost nothing to do with that film?  George, you need to take note:  NO ONE liked HOWARD THE DUCK.  Therefore, that kind of film making is a TOTAL WASTE!  Jar Jar Binks would not even appeal to a small child, and he did nothing but insult the intelligence of the rest of the audience.  Also, the chariot race in Episode 1 was really a low point of the movie. For one thing, it was TOTALLY ripped off from an ANIME movie, so it was not even original.  And isn't it strange that the &quot;Pod Racer&quot; video game was released WAY before the movie?  Clearly, that entire scene was put in the movie as nothing more than a marketing ploy so that George Lucas could get even welthier from the sales of that stupid video game.  I would be willing to forgive such a blatant selling out if that scene had actually been worth watching, but as it turned out, it was just as boring as the rest of the movie!  And finally, a note to other Star Wars fans:  If you are defending EPISODE 1, you are KIDDING YOURSELF.  We ALL know that movie SUCKED really bad. Now, I say this to you, DO NOT GO SEE ANY MORE STAR WARS MOVIES!  The Star Wars fans should REFUSE to go see EPISODE 2.  I am not going to see it, and I won't even rent it. This is the ONLY way to send a clear message to George Lucas that we will not just sit back and take his crappy attempts.  Avoid Episode 1 at ALL COSTS!!!  I am voting this movie a 1, which means AWFUL on the IMDB.  I wish I could vote in the NEGATIVE INTEGERS!"
"I happened to be flipping through the channels and passed by HBO...lo and behold the Phantom Menace was being aired (HBO continuing its practice of showing mediocre to downright terrible movies...Twister anyone?).  I decided to give the movie another chance...perhaps after 8 years my opinion may have changed. WRONG! I was a Star Wars fan, nay, Geek when I was a kid. I loved all things Star Wars/Lucas. That was until I was one of the &quot;lucky&quot; few to see the first showing of the Phantom Menace (in my town).  This was the Bill Buckner; wait, I&#39;m a Red Sox fan. This was the 2004 ALCS Yankees of movies.  George Lucas had 3 absolutely amazing movies (Episode VI was decent, before the &quot;special&quot; edition). The Star Wars franchise was THE model movie franchise. Then, the most unlikely, unbelievable movie meltdown in history.  Terrible Story. Horrible Acting. Lame Characters. Jar-Jar Binks. The only good part about this movie was that the music was done by John Williams and we will never (fingers-crossed) have to worry about a &quot;Special&quot; edition coming out.  Don&#39;t waste your time or money. Stick with the original trilogy. I really, honestly believe that George Lucas was trying to make the worst possible movie he could make. He succeeded. If that wasn&#39;t his intention, the man should never have been allowed to do anything movie-related ever again (too late).  Indiana Jones 4? Be afraid, be very, very afraid."
"Like everyone else in the western world, I couldn't wait to see the prequel to the Star Wars movies that I loved as a kid.  I was so disappointed in this movie.  Acting hit a new low, and the new characters didn't live up to the standards set by Han, Leia and Luke in the old movie.  Jar Jar is annoying and needs to take a long walk off a short pier in the next movie. Plus, it didn't take long to figure out what was going to happen.  So maybe it wasn't fully Lucas's fault.  I mean, how concerned are you  going to be when Obi Wan is &quot;fighting to the death&quot; with Darth Maul when you remember that Obi Wan is in &quot;A New Hope&quot;?  This movie is a huge disappointment when compared to the first three.  The special effects are amazing, but other than that it's not worth it."
"Well, everyone expected a great film, with a killer story, amazing special effects, and great performances.  What we got was drivel.  Yes, I saw and enjoyed the original &quot;Star Wars&quot; films, but did not see the need to buy sheets or toys or models or otherwise alter my lifestyle to suit Lucas' marketing machine.  Unfortunately, when reading other reviews, one finds that many have bought into this &quot;saga&quot;, and have been suckered into this TERRIBLE excuse for a film from a much older George Lucas.  What the &quot;Great Director&quot; (of five films, no less!) hath wrought is a 2-hour video commercial for his real business, toy and junk merchandising.  There isn't a great moment in this film, and most of it is annoying (Jar Jar Binks, Jake Lloyd) or stupid (the ridiculous underwater city and its inhabitants).  Was that really Oscar-nominated Liam Neeson talking to a flying blue insect, an unintelligible thing with a long tongue and Labrador ears, and a guy with a cool head tattoo and horns?  Wow.  It was amusing to see Samuel Jackson in a film where he didn't swear, but that's it.  Oh, and the pod race with those ridiculous alien characters meant to recall the great chariot race in the second &quot;Ben Hur&quot;?  I dozed.  As I would expect any adult would, when an annoying eight year old kid is the center of the story, doing ridiculous things (&quot;Gee, I don't know how I just blew up this space station and saved the world, but I better get outta here!&quot;).  All in, this film is an insult.  One reviewer even said that he/she didn't really LIKE the characters, but had to see the film again to really understand it (as if multiple viewings will reveal more of WHAT ISN'T THERE).  What a scam.  I'm afraid to ask what films or influences are affecting those who wrote and said this was a good film.  I found it embarrassing and insulting, and a poor example of craft from a guy who's had 20 YEARS to think up a better film that appeals more broadly to ADULTS and kids, as the original films did.  All of the alien characters are ridiculous and highly unoriginal.  A friend who saw &quot;Phantom Menace&quot; also noted that the special effects aren't that much better than the original films, either, and ILM is Lucas' real legacy to filmmaking.  Sorry, but the reviewers are right.  This film is MEDIOCRE AT BEST, and is really a subliminal message to buy junk.  Save your money and see &quot;The Mummy&quot; or &quot;Austin Powers&quot;, both of which are a hell of a lot more fun.  Rating: 1 out of 10."
"In terms of box office taking this movie is forth or fifth. In terms of special effects this is a top film but in terms of story and loyalty to the original trilogy this is abysmal.  Darth Vader is the ultimate movie villain, forget Freddy Kruger and Voldermort, but a cute little kid was used to play the role of him as a boy. Genius? I think not.  Another thing, Darth Maul is a fantastic character. I think it's fair to say that everyone loves Darth Maul. Why the hell was he only on screen for about 10 minutes? Darth Maul was the key to success in making a passable Star Wars prequel.  The question is, If Darth Maul wasn't on the screen for a decent amount of time then who was? Three words- Jar Jar Binks. The perfect character if you're under ten years old, an insult to the greatest sci-fi films of all time if you're over ten."
"Well, it's the summer of 2000, the Star dust has settled, and the marketing orgy has vacated Wall Mart.  Now seems as good a time as any to give my verdict on &quot;Star Wars 1&quot;, and I can sum it up in one simple statement:  I don't care how old or young Darth Vader is.  We should NEVER have had to hear him squeal, &quot;Yippee!&quot;    Barf.  Now when does &quot;Matrix Part Two&quot; come out?"
"Boy, what a dud, eh? And I had been told not to expect very much. The theatre here in Toronto was nearly empty. I guess the word has gone around already.  But at least the occasional silent film references may encourage people to investigate some older films of greater merit.  The scene of the blue globes rolling past that irritating Ja-Ja-Jamaican character is from the climax of Buster Keaton's &quot;Seven Chances&quot; (1925). In Buster's case, the globes are boulders and the scene is actually funny. Very funny in fact.  The city scene at the end of this film is clearly modelled after the Babylonian set in D.W. Griffith's &quot;Intolerance&quot; (1916), while the look of the capital planet is taken from Fritz Lang's &quot;Metropolis&quot; (1927). Most people, I think, would have noticed the latter. It's the outward visible sign -- &quot;In hoc signo vinces&quot; -- that any references you think you're seeing are, in fact, 1) real, and 2) intentional.  The pod race, of course, derives from Gen. Wallace's &quot;Ben Hur&quot;. I choose to believe it's Fred Niblo's 1926 version with Ramon Novarro that's being referenced, superior I think to the Wyler / Heston remake. Most people who've seen both prefer the original, although the second one does have its strengths too.  For a change of pace, there was that sound film reference -- the sound film has really been catching on, I hear -- that little group of E.T.'s that you see briefly in the Senate chamber. That was cute, a little unexpected. And two seconds worth of &quot;E.T.&quot; is about all I can tolerate anyway, so it was just right. A pinch of cuteness, no more.  I have been avoiding the hype about this movie as much as has been humanly possible. Perhaps some publicity has mentioned these homages, perhaps not. In any case, they are pretty clear to greying members of the audience.  Not paying attention to the pre-publicity may have been a mistake however. The filmmaker assumes you've seen it so he doesn't have to give you any basic information. For example, what was the main character's name? Liam Neeson's? After the screening, I stopped into the bookshop next door where I learned the name of the lead character in the film I'd just seen! Thank goodness for neighbourhood bookstores.  I should also state for the record the most obvious point about the movie, its argument in favour of the current Canadian parliamentary system. Where senators don't have any real actual power to use and abuse. Members of those of Her Majesty's opposition parties who are plotting Senate &quot;reform&quot;, please note: See this movie! See it now!  And thank you, George, for your firm support for the constitutional status quo here in Canada! We appreciate it!"
"I don&#39;t know what to make of this. Was Lucas trying to recapture the glory days of the original trilogy? I&#39;m not sure but for the most part this film really blows. I know sequels can never outshine the original although in some cases, they do and Empire Strikes Back is a great example; directed by Irvin Kershner. Yes the film has dazzling special effects and the light saber duel at the end is great, but when the dialog is so putrid and contrived and the acting so wooden and lifelessly constipated, it leaves one feeling how Lucas can stoop so low. Characters such as Qui-Gon Jin, Ben Kenobi, and Amidala are barely developed; leaving them nothing more than vapid souls against the uninspired screenplay. The other characters such as the Gungan leader and Watto, are basically blatant racial stereotypes. To make matters worse, they casted a child actor as Anakin, played to imperfection by that little pint-sized muppet Jake Loyd. And last but not least, the most hated hated character in the SW universe Jar Jar Binks, who should&#39;ve died a VERY HORRIBLE DEATH at the righteous hand of the sadly underused Darth Maul!! The original trilogy had its fare share of corny dialog, but not the extent that this movie provides. All in all, TPM fumbled critically with fans and critics and I happen to be one of them because Lucas has lost his touch with what made the original so enamored and charming: Genuine excitement. Had he filmed the prequels first back in the late &#39;70s, then the originals later on, it could&#39;ve been even greater. But as it stands, TPM is a forgettable giant pile of excrement that should forever be flushed down the cinematic toilet."
"Let me preface this review by saying I am a huge fan of the original three movies, particularly the first two. If George Lucas&#39; name and the title &quot;Star Wars&quot; were absent from the poster and ads during the pre-release hype of this film, this overlong wasted 2-hours-of-your-life masquerading as a movie would have miserably bombed at the box office. The best way to sum it up is this: it is as if the filmmaker didn&#39;t know anything about Star Wars, except the filmmaker was the writer and director of the original Star Wars films. The result is what you might expect if the Star Wars franchise was turned over to a different production company, as was done in Superman III. However, Lucas did not trade his gold mine for a billion dollars, but instead he may have killed the golden goose. This is probably one of a half-dozen of the biggest disappointments in film history, given the hype, the expectations, and the name surrounding this movie. Sure, it would probably not live up to the originals, even if it was good, but it doesn&#39;t work even modestly well as a story. The script needed only about 14 rewrites.  The story is supposed to chronicle the early life of Anakin Skywalker who eventually becomes Darth Vader, the baddie from the original movies. A potentially noble endeavor, I guess, in that it would tell in more detail the story of the Clone Wars before the rise of the Empire. The Empire is chronicled in the original 1977 movie beginning with the renamed fourth episode, &quot;A New Hope&quot;. Even aside from the story of this prequel, of which about 98% makes no sense, there are serious continuity problems in how this film fits in with the original three films, aka episodes IV-VI.  Several aspects of the &quot;story&quot; are a jumbled mess. When we first meet young Anakin Skywalker, he is supposedly a slave. And yet he gets tons of free time to work on, guess what?-- a droid called C3PO. First continuity problem: in a &quot;A New Hope&quot; C3PO is programmed as a &quot;protocol droid, versed in all the customs of different races of aliens. When he meets Luke Skywalker (son of Anakin) in Star Wars IV, C3PO knows nothing about Luke and vice-versa. He doesn&#39;t even know about R2D2&#39;s mission. Further, what would a slave be doing making a Protocol Droid, versed in all the customs? Not to mention that slaves normally have NO free-time, the whole thing makes little sense. It seemed Lucas wanted an excuse to bring C3PO back. I love C3PO, but this was not the way to bring him into the story.  Liam Neeson and Ewan McGregor play Jedi Knights, and they are wearing beige-colored robes similar to those worn by Obi-Wan Kenobi on the desert planet. Well, that makes sense, doesn&#39;t it? Obi-Wan aka Ben Kenobi was a Jedi, right? Well, if you remember, Luke&#39;s uncle also wore the same type of robe: they were robes for the desert! I never once thought in the original movie that the beige sand robes were Jedi uniforms! Qui-Gon Jinn was sort of an interesting Jedi who was at odds with the order, and I would have liked to understand better why he was in conflict with the other Jedis. And Samuel Jackson as another Jedi was a terrible casting choice. I admire the work of Jackson about as much as any actor, but he seemed like his character had been spawned from Planet East Los Angeles.  Then there is the race competition that might liberate young Anakin from his bondage as a slave. At the time, I thought, OK, he&#39;ll lose the race, and then we&#39;ll really have a story. Nope. He wins the race. Of course, the race only lasts about four hours, showing off all the neat CGI affects. This is no story. There&#39;s no obstacle for Anakin. His slavery really didn&#39;t seem that bad, and now he is liberated easily. I also missed what the Phantom or the Menace was, except for a red-clad dark Jedi called Darth Maul who seemed, for reasons not entirely explained, to like to beat up on Jedis. It seemed the movie needed a baddie called &quot;Darth&quot; somewhere, and he was it.  Ultimately, a wasted opportunity, as Lucas probably got 200 million to make this thing. What the film really needed was a script editor. Or maybe a better storyteller. Lucas really made five and a half good films (maybe six and a half at most if you liked THX 1138), American Graffiti, Star Wars IV: A New Hope, Star Wars V: The Empire Strikes Back, Star Wars VI: Return of the Jedi (really about half a good film, all the Ewok adventures seemed completely at odds with the rest of the film), The Raiders of the Lost Ark, and Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade. Maybe this Star Wars movie wouldn&#39;t have been so bad if it had been written by someone who was truly dedicated to Star Wars. Lucas didn&#39;t seem up to the task."
"Every generation has a legend. Every journey has a first step. Every saga has a beginning.  The original Star Wars trilogy was a movie sensation that captured the imagination of audiences around the world and reached box office levels that Hollywood had never before achieved. 10 years after the release of Return of the Jedi, George Lucas announced he would make a prequel trilogy. Lucas said that he waited so long to continue the saga was that back in the 70's the technology wasn't there to allow him to bring the movies to the screen the way he imagined them. That all changed with the digital accomplishments of &quot;Jurassic Park&quot; So Lucas got to work and in 1999 Star Wars Episode 1: The Phantom Menace was released. The years of anticipation that preceded its release had hyped the film to such a degree that disappointment was almost inevitable. However, it wasn't just the weight of expectation that caused the film to under perform, but also a number of highly dubious character decisions and plot elements. Still, the film did become the second highest grossing movie of all time behind Titanic.  There can't be too many people out there who aren't familiar with the film, but here's a brief reminder. The credits outline the basic elements of the plot; the taxation of trade routes is in question and the greedy Trade Federation has set up a blockade around the peaceful planet of Naboo. The Supreme Chancellor of the Galactic Senate has dispatched two of his ambassadors to resolve the dispute, and this is where the film begins. Upon arriving on the Federation ship, the ambassadors are swiftly identified as Jedi Knights, the guardians of peace and justice throughout the galaxy for countless generations. Unfortunately the Federation have no intention of negotiating and dispatch battle droids to kill the Jedi. After an intense light-saber battle, the Jedi retreat, only to discover an entire invasion army poised to attack Naboo. Stowing away on a Federation landing craft the pair head to the planet to seek out Amidala, the young queen of Naboo, who is sure to come under fire from the Federation.  The ensuing adventure takes you on a journey to many fantastical locations throughout the galaxy, introducing you to many weird and wonderful characters along the way. Chief among these are the Gungan Jar-Jar Binks (an annoyingly clumsy amphibian who just seems to cause trouble wherever he goes) and a young slave boy named Anakin. Anakin is very strong in the force, the mystical energy field that binds the galaxy together, and is able to assist the Jedi in their quest to restore order to the galaxy.  It is clear after watching this film again that it does have some fairly major flaws. The biggest problem lies in George Lucas' use of 'comedy' relief. There are a number of characters, most notably the CGI Jar-Jar Binks, who are just downright annoying, even two years on. If only they'd toned the character of Jar-Jar down just a little he would have been far more tolerable than he is here.   5/10- Annoying at times and dreadful at others"
"This is all special effects and no real story. Top notch actors like Liam Neeson, Ewan McGregor, Natalie Portman and Samuel L. Jackson are forced spew out horrible dialogue and, even worse, they aren't even allowed to spew out the horrible dialogue with passion. Jar Jar Binks is an insult to human intellect as we know it; he doesn't even look like a real creature. In fact, none of the digital characters here do. The backgrounds look real enough, but the digital characters just don't look real. George Lucas has become so blown over by how much easier computers make it that he forgot you still have to make it look real. Not to mention that the story just plain sucks, undermining everything we knew about Star Wars from the first trilogy. It should have been all about the young Obi-Wan Kenobi and him meeting Anakin and them going places and doing stuff. Shame on you, George Lucas."
"This piece fails on many levels. The acting alone should be enough to alert viewers that George Lucas no longer cares about making movies. This piece is one long SpFX reel, and even these fail to satisfy. The CGI FX seem surprisingly thin and immaterial (a history of the filmmaking process)--who really cares that either Gungans or 'droids get there just desserts. Let's be honest with ourselves. Everything aside from the central characters are mere scenery that serve no purpose but to distract the audiences from the live actors' bad performances. Jar-Jar Binks manages to flop his way into the center of attention in scenes where we SHOULD be watching the actors in order to be drawn into the progression of the plot. Shame on you, George Lucas. You have abandoned the wonderful stories, mythology, and adventure of the Star Wars Trilogy in order to indulge yourself and fill your pockets.  To be fair, the pod race is a BRILLIANT piece of filming. Perhaps Lucas at his best. This scene alone will stay with you."
"People who go to see this film should watch the news and read newspapers and magazines....there you will learn that George Lucas has said that he made this movie for his KIDS.  That's right, k-i-d-s.  He did not make this movie for the &quot;22 years later&quot; crowd to automatically declare it one of the best films ever, or for them to analyze it and to look for any kind of &quot;hidden symbolism&quot; in it.  He made it simple enough for kids to understand. Please stop using the excuse that this film is just a setup for the two upcoming Star Wars movies.  The original Star Wars movie was indeed a &quot;setup&quot; since it was the first movie of the series to be released.  Yet, as a movie, it's able to stand well on its own.  If there had been no sequels (or prequels, for that matter), Star Wars: A New Hope would have still been rated as highly as it actually is.  Why can't The Phantom Menace stand well on its own???  Additionally, Lucas has said that he doesn't think that this film will break Titanic's box office record--his goal in making this film was to entertain his kids, not to break box office records, as some Star Wars fans have aimed to do.  People who see this film should evaluate it OBJECTIVELY, rather than to praise it for simply being another film in the Star Wars series.  A film made up of 90% special effects and a distorted story is hardly a great film."
"Unfortunately, I was extremely excited to see this movie.  I love the first 3 movies so I was really anticipating the coming of this one.  What a let down.  I thought I was going to see a Star Wars movie not a Muppet movie!  If the others are like this I feel that Mr. Lucas will ruin his great reputation."
"Well I was very disappointed by this movie. No, Jar Jar doesn't bother me in the slightest, my gripe boils down to the script which i found to be both lazy (phantom is just a remake of Jedi, and New Hope, exactly the same things happen in three star wars movies now), and contradictory to the original films which maintain that Yoda taught Obi wan, not Quai Gon Who? One of the most irritating parts was the science, blood tests and midi clorians (excuse the spelling) seem so out of place in star wars, explaining &quot;the force&quot;, and Jedi in this way is akin to dissecting dragons and unicorns. To sum up i wish this film didn't seem so rushed as it does script wise, well there's always the next two films."
"Only little children can like this movie, because I can't imagine that a grown-up with enough intelligence could ever tolerate the stupidity of this film. Well, if you can see this movie free of charge and you have absolutely nothing important to do, then you can do it. But don't pay and don't sacrifice your valuable time for such an idiot movie"
"Finally Lucas' juggernaut arrived, and after seeing it, boy do I want those couple of hours of my life back.  I still don't understand how this film didn't get a G rating (maybe because of the trade dispute plot was a bit &quot;mature&quot; for kids?). With a few exceptions, everything in the movie is just plain dull. I found it difficult to stay awake through the whole thing.  Almost all the great reviews you read for &quot;Menace&quot; are from people brainwashed by the marketing (you'll see most of them will defend it with the same &quot;this is part 1 of 6&quot; argument). Since I don't trust the level of intelligence of these people (hey, you don't have to trust mine either), the review I'd really love to see is Kevin Smith's: a genuine fan of the series who's also a great director (Clerks, Chasing Amy). Kevin: If you read this, send me a note.  Anyway, who cares? This movie will still make more money than god, no matter what people think about it, and that was its purpose in the first place."
"So, I won't be too hard on George Lucas.  I watched the making of the Phantom Menace, and in the end, he didn't seem that pleased with the movie.  I can understand why.  I respect the guy, but... this movie was a disaster.  I mean, the film didn't have the 'feel' of the other 3 movies.  It doesn't fit in the Star Wars saga as the masterpiece it should be.  And when George Lucas finally has the power and means to make a perfect movie, he lets things go.  This movie simply gives one constant whiplash.  It plays like it was made for people with severe Attention Defecit Disorder.  One second a silly scene with an alien appears (which there were WAY too many of) and then a supposedly serious duel of fates.  We have a movie that is constantly retreating from where you think it is going, exploding in different directions.  I proudly own the Star Wars trilogy in a few different formats (!) but I will never buy the Phantom Menace.  This movie will not have any impact on the world of Film (maybe join Battlefield Earth for acting, direction, and cut 'expertise') except for it's stunning visual effects, Jar Jar discluded."
"This could be the worst movie ever made.  Lucas screwed up bigtime.  (1) there was no story and (2) the acting was horrible.  Face it, I was lost before the movie even got under way!  During the whole &quot;Episode I: blah blah blah&quot; introduction, Lucas used big words and didn't make a whole lot of sense.  There was no bad guy in the movie (oh yeah, there was a total of 5 minutes and 15 seconds of shots / references to Darth Maul).  This is a movie that you would expect from Disney.  And Jar-Jar?  Can you say &quot;sight gag?&quot; If I want sight-gag humor, I'll watch all the sitcoms these days.  Bottom line, you need more than just graphics to make a movie and sight gags to make a movie.  This one lacked Heart &amp; Soul."
"Ghost of a Film  This movie?  Matinee all the way.  Or the dollar theatre.  MY TWO CENTS REVIEW  I'm sorry, but the movie was weak.  I forced myself to watch it with fresh, untainted eyes.  The plot was confusing and hard to follow, the characters were poorly developed, and the humor was forced and truly, truly unfunny.  The Script  Weak.  Bad plotting and dialogue .  The characters are hopping from planet to planet seemingly willy-nilly and the side trip to Tatooine, aside from the need to get Anakin into the story somehow, was long (although, thank GOD for the Pod Race!).  There were some major holes and unexplained things in the film (the biggest being, if Tatooine is &quot;Outer Rim,&quot; too far out to be policed concerning the Republic's anti-slavery policies, then why is it on the way between Naboo and Coruscant (at the center of the system?)).  I had basic issues:  Why would this character do this?  What's the motivation?  Who's the villain?  Darth Maul?  The Emperor?  Palpatine? The Japanese Aliens?  Who's the hero?  Qui-Jonn?  Anakin?  Queen Amidala?  The writing, the backbone of any movie, and the hallmark of any SW movie, was lacking in the extreme in some very basic things that even I-by no means a good fiction writer-could spot a mile away.  The Characterization  No one was well developed at all.  Qui-Gonn and Obi-Wan are the heroes, but they hardly do anything until the lightsaber duel at the end.  Anakin is cute, but all of his achievements are pre-ordained; of course he has to survive:  he's not even childbearing age yet.  And it's hard to root for this cute kid when you know that in 30 or so years, he'll be crushing some guys windpipe with his mind.  Probably the worst mistake was the sparse use of Darth Maul!  From what I understand, the actor, Ray Park does all of the training for the lightsaber fight scenes, and it showed in that sequence at the end.  It will take your breath away.  Whereas the Vader/Skywalker fights were power versus agility, these were ballets of death with all of the backflips and feints that accompany such a deadly dance.  It was beautiful to watch.  Then we have the creatures.  The damned creatures.  Far, far too much attention is paid to them.  You can feel the joy and wonder the filmmakers had in creating these things because they are on screen TOO DAMN LONG.  Too bad that joy and wonder wasn't infused into the script.  In a way, I understand:  hundreds of FX shots, you need to focus on them since you're spending all of that money, right?  Well, all it did was steal character development time from everyone else and just kick you out of the story even further:  little hat droids hopping around, the droid army slowly unfolding from its rack, Watto doing his &quot;Greek merchant&quot; think with Qui-Gonn, the Japanese Aliens speaking without moving their lips.  And Jar-Jar.  Damned Jar-Jar.  My hatred of this character knows no bounds.  It's as if someone said &quot;Hey, the guys computer animated, who cares what he says?!  Whooooo!&quot;). Chewbacca, who you couldn't understand, was funnier than this floppy-eared freak.  I understand that there has to be a &quot;toy-ready&quot; character for the film, but, man, this thing was a-friggin'-'nnoying!  I won't rant anymore, but God in Heaven, he was painful to watch.  In all, the creatures were distracting.  As opposed to just treating them like ordinary characters, the camera stays on them for far, far too long, and for no reason other than to show off the technical wizardry.  If that's why people came to see a movie, though, Godzilla would have made more money.  The Acting  All-in-all pretty solid.  Some friends of mine didn't like Jake Lloyd, but I thought the kid did OK; his lines were poorly written, but what could he do about that?  Ray Park was friggin' great and was onscreen for far too little a time.  Neeson.come on.of course he was great.  Ewan MacGregor was good, and could have been better if he hadn't been relegated to a &quot;Robin, watch the Batmobile&quot; role for a lot of the movie.  Natalie Portman was FANTASTIC. I was very, very impressed with her performance.  Samuel Jackson is in the film far, far too briefly, but he does fine as one of the Jedi Council patriarchs.  Acting solid for the most part, even in the smaller characters like Anakin's Mom and the Queen's Bodyguard.  Writing brings it down.  The Effects/Art Direction  Stellar.  Amazing.  Awesome.  Completely computer generated creatures built from scratch.  Alien vistas unlike anything you've ver seen.  Coruscant's night side is a spiderweb of mile-high skyscrapers.  Visually, this film was amazing and the effects and computer-genned characters were seamless.  I will watch it again (on video) to marvel at the look of the film  Conclusion  As a setup for the fall of Anakin, this movie serves its purpose.  It introduces the main players that will accompany the fall of this doomed figure over the next six years and executes some amazing special effects, easily the best I've ever seen.  The story, though, is in dire need of a critical edit, as was the film itself.  Characters needed fleshing out, exposition needed toning down, pace needed speeding up in a lot of places, dialogue retooled, focus acquired, and the concept beefed up (starting out any movie with talk of tariffs and blockades gets the viewer into &quot;news at 11 mode&quot; and eyes get glassy).  My prediction:  this film will be a blockbuster, but it will barely break the top 10 grossing movies of all time (if it reaches it at all).  It WILL make the Top 20, but I can't imagine that enough SW fans are devout enough to want to see such a poor addition to the series a second or third time.  All that said, I can't wait for the next prequel.  It's gotta be an improvement."
"I know I did a review of this title quite awhile back, but once again a review of mine has evaporated into the ether. Suffice it to say this is a dreadful movie on all counts, the acting, the scripting, even most of the special effects. You don't need me to recount the plot. I will confine my thoughts to some of the players. Jake Lloyd as a young Anakin is an embarrassment. The role needed to be played by an actor, not a moppet. The kid from THE SIXTH SENSE would have been far more appropriate. Ewen McGregor fares only slightly better as the young Kenobi in an underwritten role. (I will admit he improves in the next movie.) The one bright light in this shaky cartoon of a film was the esteemed Liam Neeson as a revered Jedi knight with an unpronounceable name, and he ends up getting killed! The highlight of the film clearly is the final duel, but it is not worth sitting through two hours of a misguided and absolutely unnecessary sequel to watch. As for Jar Jar Binks ... the less said, the better. George Lucas, what the hell could you have been thinking of? Money, I suppose."
"Star Wars: Episode I: The Phantom Menace is a decent movie with a reasonably well developed storyline and a mediocre cast. It&#x27;s certainly the weakest film in the franchise, which is upsetting since its technically the first, but there&#x27;s still a lot of good in this film that I think the major fans never think about when they criticize this, Liam Neeson boasts a fantastic performance as Qui-Gon Jinn, his dialogue is terrific and at times quite inspirational even for reality, the soundtrack is once again fantastic, the effects are superb, Darth Maul is a terrific, memorable post-Darth Vader villain (even if his screen time is very limited) and any scene with C3PO, R2D2 or Yoda would bring a smile to any fans face. I will admit this film is a major disappointment for any fan of the franchise and there is honestly much more to complain about than to give praise to, first off the story takes forever to actually get going, over an hour in and we are still in Tatooine watching amateur pod racing, the comic relief is brutal, it&#x27;s handled with pure class in the original three, but here it isn&#x27;t even funny, particularly Jar Jar Binks, who is just horror to watch, also the main villain isn&#x27;t introduced until about ninety minutes in, and is (spoiler ahead) killed off way too early, Darth Maul could have been terrific as the main villain of the entire prequels , serving as this trilogies Vader. I like many of the performances, but there are many, many cringe worthy ones as well, a tone of the characters with brief dialogue deliver it with no charisma, some of the voice actors are uninspired and others are quite racist, Natalie Portman literally just says her lines, and the worst part of the entire movie has to be Jake Lloyd, who is extremely irritating, dosen&#x27;t say any of his dialogue the way he is suppose to and probably didn&#x27;t even understand the story, but it isn&#x27;t his fault really, he was only nine years old, George Lucas clearly couldn&#x27;t direct him, age is no exception when you&#x27;re making a movie, you should be telling your actors when they&#x27;re doing a poor job, and strive to improve them. It has many great moments, but more so there are many imperfections, it&#x27;s very hard to recommend Star Wars Episode I: the Phantom Menace, but if you&#x27;re watching the entire series, there is no way it can be missed.   Two Jedi Knights who have escaped from a hostile blockade meet a boy named Anakin Skywalker, whom one of them believes will bring balance to the force, and truly is the chosen one.   Best Performance: Liam Neeson Worst Performance: Jake Lloyd"
"How... why... who... WHAT DID THEY DO? &quot;Star Wars&quot; in the now is like waiting for a disaster to happen! They destroyed the story. How could they? I used to love Liam Neeson, but he has truely lost my respect. The &quot;Star Wars&quot; trilogy is one of the greatest trilogies ever. Then they give us this! This?! Nothing but big computer effects. Characters that are dull and boring. The plot did not put me on the edge of my seat, thank you very much. I do not get how this movie has a rating of 6.5. How?! It doesn't even deserve my kind rating of 1. But unfortunatly, that's all IMDB gives me to rate. And if 1 is &quot;awful&quot;, this is being to merciful. This was beyond awful. But until then, I'll have to stick with giving it:  1/10"
"A standard critical comment is, &quot;The special effects were fine; but the script ...&quot;  Well, the special effects weren't fine.  They were an embarrassing failure.  They were never as convincing as those of the first two movies (and, on the whole, they fell short of the third as well). Very little looks or feels or moves as if it were solid.  Lucas gets around this problem by switching camera angles at random so as to never let us get a clear view of anything.  It must have worked.  Legions of fans were willing to walk out of cinemas saying dutifully how good the special effects were; and those who disliked the film as a whole found other bones of contention and so were willing to concede the point.  Jar Jar isn't the only thing wrong with &quot;The Phantom Menace&quot;, but he's illustrative of almost everything wrong.  He follows the central characters around like a mosquito but usually has no particular reason for being on screen.  His motivations are obscure.  He looks so phoney you wouldn't believe even when he stands still: and the more he moves, the phonier he looks.  His dialogue is horrible - but so is everyone else's.  Incompetence is the verdict one must carry away from this film - a strange thing, given the number of manifestly competent people who worked on it. I am by no means willing to write off episodes 2 and 3.  But we must now write off episode 1.  The pretence that this is anything other than a turkey-shaped blot on the Star Wars series, must stop."
"Star Wars, the Phantom Menace, is perhaps one of the most disappointing movies of all time, but that&#x27;s not so much the director to blame, but also the fact we all were expecting almost the Second Coming, and then, all we got was just a mediocre movie, with boring characters, boring story, and a bunch of eye-candy. George Lucas should have known that special effects without a good story aren&#x27;t impressive anymore. In the seventies, watching &#x22;Star Wars&#x22;, the &#x22;fairy tale in space with cool effects&#x22; was ground breaking, because it mixed a recognizable story &#x22;peasant saves the princess and becomes a knight&#x22; with a creative environment. But in the 90s, watching &#x22;a pointless tale with computer effects&#x22; was just boring.  This movie isn&#x27;t the &#x22;worst movie ever made&#x22;, but it&#x27;s just boring: it hasn&#x27;t any endurable or classic value as the original trilogy. The characters are undeveloped or just annoying (and borderline racist), the story is a pseudo-political fiasco with boring dialog (&#x22;but the fans won&#x27;t accept these are movies for kids!&#x22;, yeah, kids are eager to watch arguments about taxes, trade federations, bureaucracy, etc.), which sums up the dullness of the movie. George Lucas is telling us: take my eye-candy, and buy tickets and props, you mindless drones.  Of course, fan-boys who like this movie will try to justify everything: &#x22;The plot DOES make sense&#x22;, &#x22;the story DOES make sense&#x22;, &#x22;Lucas had it all planned from the beginning&#x22;, guess what: all the explanations and justifications won&#x27;t make this movie more entertaining.   3/10"
"The Phantom Menace: just the title alone is enough to send shivers up the spine of anyone raised on the original Star Wars trilogy; just what was George Lucas thinking as he penned and directed this long awaited prequel? (being a cynic, I imagine it was the umpteen gazillions of dollars he would make from the sale of toys and commercial tie-ins).  Perhaps the most notable thing about the film is it&#x27;s distinct lack of fun: trade embargo negotiations, taxation, and treaties are enough to bore the restraining bolts off an Artoo unit, and the majority of the cast perform their roles with the dry seriousness expected of a Shakespeare play at the Old Vic, rather than a pulp space opera.  But even when his actor&#x27;s aren&#x27;t sending us to sleep delivering their monotonous political discourse, good old George fails to entertain, with action scenes ruined by an over reliance on cartoonish CGI and embarrassingly bad slapstick humour (delivered by one of the most irritating creations ever to grace the silver screen, Jar Jar Binks, played by Ahmed Best).  Also serving to irritate is Jake Lloyd&#x27;s pivotal performance as Anakin &#x27;Ooops&#x27; Skywalker, which is absolutely dire, the supposedly cute moppet eliciting feelings of murderous rage within this particular viewer rather than the presumably intended sense of pathos at his character&#x27;s ultimate fate (it&#x27;s no coincidence that this film marks the end of both Best and Lloyd&#x27;s movie careers).  And don&#x27;t even get me started on the &#x27;midichlorian&#x27; nonsense that robs the whole franchise of its sense of mystery and wonder, Anakin&#x27;s accidentally saving the day, the woeful waste of the film&#x27;s best character, Darth Maul, or the film&#x27;s supposed highlight, the pod race, lacking genuine excitement thanks to its predictable outcome...  Oh well, at least John Williams&#x27; score was good."
"Unfortunate this all is.  I mean there is no excuse for this movie being made so stupid. Episodes IV to VI gave it&#x27;s author so much potential to make not only great prequels but to make them epic. Instead they seem more septic. Many reviews went into details why is this bad for Star Wars being fan or not so I want repeat it here.  Only one scene is worth to be called Star Wars and that is Jedi duel at the near end of movie and transformation to Vader at end of Episode III. Rest is Lucas going merchandise frenzy.  Biggest problem of this movie is not Jar Jar, no, it is lack of soul, lack of any substance any fabric or emotion. Something that made Episodes IV,V and VI so widely loved throughout the planet.  Real shame for Skywalkers around the globe."
"Even with the acting and film that was made, it could have been edited into a better film. That has been proved, for those that don&#39;t know look it up, I won&#39;t mention the name here. Just by removing a lot of the Jar Jar scene stealing, and Anakins &quot;accidents&quot; the movie would have been a lot stronger.  The acting wasn&#39;t the worst I&#39;ve seen, and the plot was decent except dragging. But just know that it could have been better if George Lucas cared enough to higher a good editor that didn&#39;t just say &quot;Yes.&quot; when George wanted to leave one of his Pet ideas in there.  George&#39;s excuse now is that Star Wars is a &quot;Kids&quot; movie. And I guess if that&#39;s all he wanted to target, then by all means, he succeeded. But it sounds more like an excuse to get around his bad movie.  -It&#39;s been happening to him a lot lately..  Look at the recent Indiana Jones and relate that to the other films in that group...."
"The weight of anticipation i felt for this film was beyond anything I&#39;ve ever felt for a film.Maybe that was why i didn&#39;t enjoy the film? No, I&#39;ve since watched it and hoped that was the reason but its failings go deeper and beyond sheer weight of expectation. This is a film that betrays its core audience.It&#39;s a confused film that spreads itself too thinly in the vain hope of entertaining a broad demographic.Unfortunately,the film fails desperately and leaves its audience flat.Jar Jar Binks is an awful character,Lucas may as well have just thrown Roger Rabbit into his epic saga.Binks is the tip of the iceberg though,the taxation plot thread will confuse kids and bore adults.The only saving grace is the character of Darth Maul,the problem is he&#39;s given little screen time and no back story.The are great effects too but one gets the feeling that effects are the reason the film exists.In his prime Lucas was an inventor and an explorer,Menace is a deeply flawed film with little going in its favour. A crushing blow to the Star Wars brand."
"I was 13 when when I first saw Star Wars, and like most boys at that time thought it was the hands down best movie I&#39;d ever seen. Fast forward to years later and I learn there&#39;s going to be another Star Wars trilogy. Like many males I still happily have a childish side, and looked forward to the The Phantom Menace with enormous anticipation, a must see at the cinema.  *** Spoilers follow *** It all started well enough. Some cool action scenes and we get to see what a pair of trained up Jedi can really do. Cool! OK, so the Trade Federation guys sound oriental, but that only became a problem in the context of what was to follow.  I continued to enjoy the movie as a light hearted special effects fest for a while and then Jar-Jar appeared. I couldn&#39;t believe what I was seeing and hearing, another racial stereotype, but this time in the tradition of Black Face. Now those youngsters among you probably don&#39;t know what this is since old movies with this kind of content are rarely shown these days, but in these movies there was a tradition of portraying blacks as comedy morons. They say stupid things and fall about, and are treated as retards by the main characters, and there it was, an alien that behaved and spoke in exactly the same way! I hadn&#39;t seen anything like it in a movie made in the past 50 years, I think I was in shock! Then we get the Mexican style junk/slave trader, and a scene where the Gungans are portrayed like idiotic natives meeting white explorers for the first time. WTF? More and more the movie irritated me, such as when they decorate a droid (a tool) for performing it&#39;s function. And the scene where the whole Jedi concept is undermined by introducing Mediclorians, a sample of which Qui-Gon &#39;teleports&#39; to Obi-Wan for analysis. I didn&#39;t know teleportation was possible in the Star Wars universe. We learn that C3PO has been custom built by a child (Darth Vader), despite his similarity to other protocol droids.  And so we have endless scenes of Jar-Jar behaving like a special needs child, and almost nothing to inform us about the baddie from the movie&#39;s title.  And then there&#39;s the dialogue and the acting. Oh my! The light sabre fight at the end was cool, but it was way too late to save this disaster for me. Just because it&#39;s a kids movie doesn&#39;t mean you can ignore the principles and ideas established in the first trilogy.  The start and the end were good. The special effects were good. But as for the rest of it, argh! I wish this had never been made.  George Lucas, you once were great. Congratulations on so thoroughly undermining your greatest achievements.  There&#39;s a scene in the series Spaced when The Phantom Menace is mentioned to Simon Pegg&#39;s character, and he flashes back to a scene where he&#39;s weeping and throwing his old Star Wars toys onto a bonfire. I know exactly how he felt.  2/10"
"The Star Wars series reaches an all time low with this one. This is without a doubt the biggest let down in movie history. A movie not living up to standards is nothing new. But a movie that not only fails to reach standards and kill most of what was in the original series, is downright terrible. On the positive side, the battles in the movie especially the light-saber battles are fantastic, though at time it seems to slow down, bordering on fake. That&#39;s about all I can list. My biggest complaint is the characters, not all of them, but some. They just seem out of place in what was such an epic legacy. Die-hard Star Wars fans will watch and weep at this movie. If you want to know what happened in this film , best get someone else to tell you."
"Star Wars: Episode I - The Phantom Menace (1999)   Review: So this is the official first Star Wars movie. I must say that it is filled with controversy. Here&#39;s my take:   Star Wars starts off rather shaky. The Phantom Menace is not really what I hoped for. The main problem that I have is that this movie is just not compelling. There are many boring parts here and the story lags rather about.  There is no denying the FX. A Star Wars tradition since the start has been the dazzling special FX and they are quite the treat. There are a lot to look at here.  The main problem is the story and suspense that follows. We know who lives anyway, and that hurts the suspense for certain characters. However, we do get some nice action scenes(be patient, they do eventually happen) and a fitting and satisfying final light saber duel.  My gripe is that this is too long, gets really boring at times and the suspense is not as good as I wanted. The villain Darth Maul seemed to be there just for show than an actual character with his tiny dialog being proof of that and no character development being a big flaw.  This isn&#39;t terrible, no. Just a flawed movie that had so much more to be desired and the potential was never unlocked. That and I cant stand Jar-Jar.  The Last Word: For fans only. Hardcore geeks will savor this. Casual movie fans may or may not like. This is how it started. Fear not, it does get better. Have patience."
"This is possible the biggest disappointment in the history of Cinema. The original Star Wars trilogy was very important for me when I was a kid. I remember the enthusiasm back in 99 when this came out. I was 18, not so big SW fan anymore, but definitely exited for new Star Wars movie and expectations were extremely high.  So the movie begins. Star Wars logo appears on the screen, that familiar tune begins and prologue starts to roll. It was like a dream. Then the bad jokes, decent-at-best acting, lame dialogue and Jar Jar Binks took over.  There was no plot. No interesting characters. No nothing. Goofy cgi-character stepping on turds on the streets of Mos Eisley was something I really wasn&#39;t expecting from the movie.  The acting. Liam Neeson hasn&#39;t never been this average. He really looked uncomfortable in this role. Jake Lloyd was abysmal. Are you really telling me this sucker supposed to be Darth Vader? One of the greatest badasses of the Cinema? Screenplay was ridiculously bad. The kid referring Padme to angel etc. It was nearly unwatchable at times. And to the people who claim dialogue never was very strong in SW movies.. Get Real! It never was THIS bad in the old trilogy.  I kept telling myself: &quot;This will get better. This will get better. This will..&quot; and yes, eventually it did. I admit the lightsaber duel at the end with quite nice Duel of Fates was a good scene. But the annoying kid, Jar Jar and all others of his kind, the podrace, and nearly everything else before it was so lame no matter how great the ending would have been, nothing couldn&#39;t save this movie. It&#39;s a shame.  4/10"
"Having grown up in the generation of the original Star Wars, and having spent my Summer in the movies watching the first Star Wars installment, upon finally seeing The Phatom Menace, I was scratching my head. This wasn't the Star Wars I fell in love with. In fact there's not much to love about this film. The &quot;story line&quot; is so convoluted and confusing, and the characters come and go so fast you can't figure out who they are. Lucas should have spent more time on creating an interesting story line worthy of Star Wars instead of relying on so many special effects (I felt like I was in a pinball machine with all the bright colors and glaring sounds) and bizarre costumes to distract us from the threadbare script. I started to watch this installment in hopes of watching &quot;Revenge of the Sith&quot; but now I have no intentions of seeing it."
"I enjoy the film for its fun action sequences (aside from the over-rated pod race), and instigating story. Nearly a split between a 5 and a 6 (out of 10), though, because of a few good performances and the beautiful cinematography, I gave it the better half of the 5.  Actor to character analysis:  Liam Neeson as Qui-Gon Jinn -- Neeson provides yet another exceptional performance as the positively bull-headed Jedi knight who takes it upon himself to train the young, mysterious Anakin Skywalker. His performance: 8.5/10   Ewan McGregor as Obi-Wan Kenobi -- Ewan dishes a performance of slightly above-average status as the soon-to-be mentor to the chosen one. His performance: 8/10  Natalie Portman as Queen Padme Amidala -- The only thing I can say in her behalf is that she was miscast. To be honest, the performance she delivers to this film is among the worst of her career. Well below-average performance: 4.5/10   Jake Lloyd as young Anakin -- Not to dismiss his acting ability, his performance was awful. Unfortunately, the ability he shows in the movie IS the extent of his ability. The casting of Lloyd as Anakin was a major miss! The performance: 3/10  Last, thought not least, Ray Park as the extremely dangerous Sith Lord, Darth Maul -- I LOVED Park as Darth Maul! However, I was extremely disappointed in the makers of the film for not using him more. Darth Maul is among the greatest villains in cinematic history, and with that, one of the most underused gems of the screen as well. Park's performance: 8/10 -- In his infrequent and brief screen time, he subconsciously persuaded the audience to side with him, for finally a villain presented his or herself to be truly evil; something Vader couldn't fully pull off.  Ahmed Best's contribution as Jar-Jar was a waste. I'm not going to dog on him, for in the eyes of the filmmakers, he did his part. Though, I believe Jar-Jar to be the film's largest mistake. So much could have been without Binks, such as a more serious approach to a film that tried and tried to provide some humor -- at which the film's creators failed miserably. In addition, it could have clipped the film's 2 hr. and 13 min. running time -- one that is not unbearably long, but unbearable because of Jar-Jar. The only reason I can think of Jar-Jar's existence is that the Gungans (his alien race) are needed by the Queen to help resist an attack by the Federation's clone army. Still, did they really have to insert the annoying dialect and silly Jar-Jar character?"
"Where to start? CGI is wonderful, but too much reliance on it and you have this movie (and others like it). I loved the original 3 movies because fx and characters were beautifully blended (done even better in Lord of the Rings). It seems to me that Lucas was so disappointed in not having more sfx in the first trilogy that he's gone bonkers with it now. Word to the wise, George: less is more. There were several good things in this movie, despite the following: Anakin should have been a teen actor; what the Queen lacked in spirit she made up for in over the top costumes and makeup; Jar Jar needed subtitles-I don't know about anyone else, but I gave up trying to figure out what he was saying about 3 minutes into his first scene. For a movie that is supposed to set up the next 5, there was little background explanation..again, too much CG. Ah, well-GL is laughing all the way to the bank."
"I'm not a die hard star wars fan, but i did enjoy the original trilogy very much, three films that birthed the most original and focused concepts to grace a sci-fi film, and they still impress today after almost 30 years. So been what i am, i didn't have the huge expectations that some had for what this film should be, but i was intrigued to find out the origin story and witness the birth of all those great characters.  The story of Phantom Menace bases itself in politics, an alien race called the trade federation harassing the planet of Naboo, which itself must find unity between it's two separate civilisations to combat this oncoming force.  This creates the basic background for the real action. The trade federation is been driven on by the malevolent Sith Lords, the sect resembling the dark side of the force, using them to gain a threshold in the galaxy for further development. Jedi ambassadors, the good side of the force, Quoi Gon Gin and Obi Won Kanobi, are sent to induce peace and a setting down of arms between the TF and Naboo. The Sith struggle to assassinate these Jedi, who find refuge in the disputed planet, where they befriend a Gungan native, Jar Jar Binks, and proceed to try and save the captured Queen of Naboo Amidala and seek safer grounds. This just so happens to be the desert planet of Tatooine, where the Jedi meet an intriguing young boy, Anakin Skywalker, a slave to the wily tradesman of the Tatooine Space Port, and part of a far larger slave population, including his family. Quoi Gon senses a great affinity of the force with this boy, and is certain he is destined for greater things.  So ensues the rest of the film; space battles, a pod race, epic ground battles, light sabre duels, the eventual compromise to the political sub plot and absolutely astonishing special effects and art work from ILM to fully realise for the first time George Lucas's imaginative creation the way he wanted it, the reason he collaborated an expert team of technicians so long ago, after many Oscars, to get it to where it is now. Yep, i am a fan of the special effects, even though some have dismissed it as been overkill. This is epic stuff, and extraordinary stuff, to see such magnificent creations of a focused vision brought to life with so many different techniques, many pioneering,used for this soul purpose, plus other cosmetic touches like stunts and extras. It's this practical use of special effects that always impresses for any film that tries it, including the original trilogy. This is the crucial difference that means an Oscar nomination or not for special effects. Obviously this got one.  That's 5 of the 6 out of ten. It could have been 7 of the 8, but this is why it isn't. The lack of joy, heart or commitment in most of the actors playing their roles. It really bogs this film down and it's a huge shame. The reason behind it could be the fact that the script itself doesn't hold any wit, funny humour or character. There are points when it tries, but these are artificial and basic, nothing colourful. But it's the acting that really isn't up there. A script can be the best piece of writing since Shakespeare, but if you don't have the actors to bring it to life, it's wasted. Then again, a script can be awful, but the acting can adapt to fit it, so you get melodrama and hamming, making it fun. Here, we have a script that's bland but not the worst, definitely salvageable with the right acting. That's what we don't have. Deliverance is monotonous for the most part, with occasional emotional backing at the most intense times. That's not enough to believe in these characters. In the original trilogy, all the actors seemed to thoroughly enjoy what they were doing, giving it their all and making the characters likable and breathing life into them, even when the script got extra cheesy. Here, all we get are plot pushing lines. No one seems to be enjoying or putting any effort into their work, and that reflects big time in the performances, which drains the life out of the drama and the film. Jake Loyd seems to be the only one trying, but his limited skill with young age and the script prevent him from getting any further than anyone else does. It's a huge shame because this is a talented cast that could have worked and it makes what should have been the great moments in the film fall flat. Lucas found what he was looking for in the technology, but unfortunately overlooked his actors. He improved in number II, and it looks like he has in III also, but i think this episode was important and he ruined it.  It's hard to like a movie based solely on special effects and action, which seems to be everyone's argument for this film to be a success, a sheer thrill ride of action and awe. Yeah, i dug all that big time, but the originals had that and more. Heart, soul and warmth in the script and committed actors that wanted to succeed and did. This movie didn't have that and whenever it tried it either became too immature (Jar Jar Binks) or too stagnant (Some &quot;witty outbursts&quot; from the Jedis like &quot;I've got a bad feeling about this.&quot; delivered in the same tone as every other line). Overall, an extra mark for a 6 because it was cool to see the events taking place that would influence the known future, plus it's got star wars written all over the production design and action and that'll keep me comin back to the sequels, whether or not i enjoy them in the end."
"In the middle of 1999, I went with family, and friends of family, to see a film that fans of George Lucas' original series had been waiting for over a period of sixteen years. The level of anticipation that had built up over that time was such that no film could live up to expectations, but the film was enjoyed as a singular experience anyway. The main reason for this is the difference an audience can make. One advantage of a midnight screening at a George Lucas film, at least in this market, is the absence of small children, idiots, and other problems likely to disrupt enjoyment. Nobody goes to this much trouble to see a film unless they want to be hit in the face with every piece of dialogue or every sound. While disappointment can be blamed to some extent upon false expectations built up over a period of years, the film also displays many symptoms of Lucas taking his audience for granted. It is hardly helpful when a director surrounds himself with yes-men that confirm the validity of every decision he makes, regardless of its presence.  First and foremost, the problem with The Phantom Menace is the dialogue and acting. Liam Neeson looks able to fake his way through the scenes, but Ewan McGregor and Natalie Portman in particular look very uncomfortable in environments that are ninety percent bluescreen, and nobody can blame them. Any actor will tell you that having something to react to is a vital tool in their profession. It has been said that Neeson looks like he is staring far away when he is meant to be talking to Jar-Jar Binks, which is untrue. It has already been well-documented that an actor was on the sets at all times, standing in for the character. No, the real problem is that, shots in Tunisia aside, most of the sets are entirely blue. Looking at some production shots of these sets, you can see for yourself that the actors are meant to be riding on and interacting with things that give them no reaction at all. A nightmare for any actor, for certain.  The dialogue is also quite stilted. A memorable piece of trivia about the original series was that both Alec Guiness and Harrison Ford told Lucas at various points that his writing was ordinary, if not in so many words. While the screenplays were of significantly better quality than is the case here, the problem is that Lucas has, in the meantime, surrounded himself with yes-men that dare not question him in the manner that Ford or Guiness displayed. Indeed, as one noted critic said about the next film in this new series, one has to wonder when the last time someone said the word &quot;no&quot; to Lucas was. Perhaps Liam Neeson or Brian Blessed said this very word to him during production, and he chose to ignore it. When you can command almost a billion dollars in film sales and merchandising, ignoring criticism can tend to be something of a natural skill.  If there is one thing that The Phantom Menace gets right, it is in the duel coordination. Here, the main event is a duel between one Sith lord and two Jedi. The event was highly anticipated among fans, and it is the one that doesn't disappoint after the perspective of time is added. Here, everything is perfect, at least once you edit out the space battle (which was still plagued with daft dialogue) and the infantry battle (which was just plain daft). Stuntman Ray Park proves that he was hired to do this film for a reason, while Neeson and McGregor show that they took their instruction with stunt coordinator Nick Gillard very seriously. The camera-work during this duel is also excellent. In contrast to the other two films, and many others of recent years I could name, the positioning of the camera relative to the duelists is very well chosen. Never is there any confusion as to who is making what move, even during the occasional closeup. This is especially amazing when you consider that the duelists generally move faster than many a Kung Fu action film star.  It is for that reason, more than anything, that I gave The Phantom Menace a five out of ten. In essence, this is a couple of duels and the introduction of a little boy in search of a coherent plot. Anakin Skywalker as a child was unnecessary and annoying, while the future mother of his children never gets beyond the superficial. After the recent triumph of the third prequel, this hollow first effort becomes a real disappointment. It is worth watching once, but barely more than that."
"The plot of this film and Jar Jar Binks have been mercilessly parodied and its not hard to see why.  This film really does have one of the most boring plots. The framework for this movie is a trade federation blockade and politics of a galactic senate. Great. Within this framework we have a couple of Jedi occasionally hacking their way through various CG robots, some *extremely* irritating and unconvincing CG characters, a rather good but overlong pod race in the middle and a dull denouement where yet more CG characters fight CG robots inter-cut with the Jedis fighting a baddie called Darth Maul. CG is okay in doses, but it does not make up for a saggy plot or other deficiencies.  Darth Maul is the most interesting thing about the film and he is woefully underused. Aside from being a bad ass fighter, we have no better clue who he is or what he wants. Recall previous Star Wars where the duels were accompanied by a duel of words - Obi Wan Kenobi squaring up to Vader, or Vader vs Luke Skywalker. The words were as interesting as the fighting itself and I bet most fans can recall them. The Jedis and Darth Maul size each other up, and fight in near silence. What a waste. As someone wrote for Slate (if I recall), why not use the opportunity for Maul to expound his beliefs and perhaps even semi-convince the &quot;maverick&quot; Jedi played by Liam Neeson of what he is trying to do.  Aside from this, not much else sticks in the mind. The acting is universally wooden, thanks no doubt to the amount of CG filling each scene - &quot;Mr Neeson stand in front of this green screen and say your lines to the tennis ball on a stick. We'll fill in who you're talking to and the space port you're standing in later.&quot;. The child actor playing Annakin is irritating, and the CG Jar Jar is even more so.  I have to say that Attack of the Clones went some way to mitigate the annoying Jar Jar by making him the tragic instigator of the Clone Wars. But if ever Lucas ever re-cuts these films (as he is wont to do when his bank balance dips below several billion), he should re-voice this annoying creation and give him half as much to say."
"Sadly as entertaining as this film was unfortunately all the hype was far to much to live up to. the original trilogy being so strong. Thought there have been several advances in special effects technology in recent years one can't help but feel that a lot of soul is lost through the excessive use of special effects. The acting is extremely dire and without the effects this would just end up being a forgotten B grade sci-fi film. Even though we see the most memorable feature of star wars in this film &quot;the light sabre&quot; the duels are lacklustre and the joy of the double edged light sabre is lost. Beautifully crafted the sith lord could be classed as the highlight of the movie but gets no where near the dizzy heights of the emperor in the original trilogy. Jar jar binks? what where they thinking??? you might as well have had the sickly cute Ewoks from RTOJ, at least they were more realistic than a computer animated kangaroo lizard with a Rather annoying voice, far too childish and uninspiring. The pod race is definitely the highlight of this move though. The only exciting pulse quickening scene in the film.... All in all not a bad movie not great either."
"I just re-watched &quot;The Phantom Menace&quot; for the first time since it first came out. I came to several realizations (some bad, some good): 1. Regarding Jar Jar...he wasn't all that bad. There was just too much of him. Lucas should have either had less of him at the beginning or had him be more serious at the end. Also, since Jar Jar became such an important character, he probably should have been a little more serious than he was. After all, not all the Gugans (sp?) were like him. There were a few that the audience were shown that had more seriousness to their characters.  2. The actor who played Anakin...what the hell were they thinking hiring him? I remember hating that actor's performance the first time I saw it, and nothing has changed. The kid had no chemistry with anyone he was acting with. I know that kid actors aren't supposed to be incredibly good, but with a character as important as Anakin, they should have tried harder to get a kid who was at least halfway decent. This kid was awful. He couldn't even say, &quot;Yippee!&quot; without it sounding totally fake.  3. The special effects...oy. They are awesome, however, it's hard to buy that this movie took place 30 years before Star Wars Episode IV. The technology they have looks much more advanced. They should have toned it down some, made it look more natural, and older than the technology from the previous trilogy.  4. The other actors...they are awesome. They did as best they could, considering some of what they had to put up with. Their performances were enjoyable, and most of them interacted as well as they could. Unfortunately, every time they were in scenes with the kid who played Anakin, their scenes ended up being uneven, because that kid could not act.  5. Yoda...I'm glad they still had the puppet Yoda in this one. I don't like the CGI Yoda in &quot;Attack of the Clones&quot; (except for during the fight scene with Dooku). I think the puppet looks more natural than the CGI.  6. Plot...this movie actually has a good plot, when you get past all the flashiness, CGI, and bad acting.  This movie is not a total loss, though when compared to the earlier movies, it just doesn't hold its own. &quot;Attack of the Clones&quot; was better, though there were problems with that one too. I am looking forward to &quot;Revenge of the Sith,&quot; tentatively willing to venture hope that Lucas might actually make a prequel that holds its own with the first trilogy."
"This film has destroyed my childhood.............  This is so obviously a commercial exercise rather than an attempt to make a good film that it deserves utter contempt. See if you can spot the bit in the future Star Wars films that is specially designed for a computer game.  When I was younger, Star Wars and The Empire Strikes back were the bench mark for the modern blockbuster. This films shows how bad the majority of blockbusters have become.  The motivation to make this film was money, don't give them yours. Buy the original films (and why does he (Lucas) feel the need to mess with these?) on DVD and leave these new Star Wars films alone."
"Following on from the greatest trilogy of all time is a hard act to follow, so it was inevitable that many would be disappointed by a film which isn't the one that the fans expected i.e. the return of Darth Vader and the classic good vs evil battle of the originals.(you'll have to wait until May 2005 for that one).  Instead we are given the beginning of the story, which is really setting up the events that lead to the situation we find ourselves at the beginning of the classic trilogy.   In this first installment the galaxy is a very different place, a democratic republic where any conflicts are settled by the Jedi knights, the guardians of peace and justice of the republic for millennial. However, the republic is growing stale, allowing greedy bureaucrats to get involved and act to their own advantage. This paves the way for the trade federation to tax trade routes to outlying star systems and create hostilities on a peaceful world.   To counteract this, the republic dispatch 2 Jedi knights to calm the dispute, but little do they know that this series of events will shape the future for years to come, for it is on this mission that a more sinister threat is revealed...  This film was always going to be compared to he originals, but it isn't as bad as many people would have you believe. Granted there's too much CGI in some areas, some of the acting is a little wooden and Jar-Jar does get irritating (it's not as bad as you think though), but this is still a film that entertains.   This is an action film and it's exactly that which makes it better than most. The first conflicts aboard the trade federation ship get you back in the mood, the pod racing is exhilarating and the final light saber climax is the best ever seen. All this is complemented by a tidy plot, appearances by some much loved characters and a fine score by John Williams (especially the climactic piece, The Duel of the Fates).  But after all, these films are only going to be compared to the other ones in the saga and after a 22 year vacation from the directing chair, George Lucas hasn't quite hit that old magic formula. However, there are still puzzles to be solved and the end will leave you wanting to find out in the next ones.   This is a good film, not a great one, but everyone knows they can do something special where this yarn came from. 8/10."
"The Ersatz Menace  I don't even know where to begin.  For starters, even if this movie existed in a vacuum (w/ no relation to the original trilogy), it would still suck.  I'm sorry: it's an out and out poor film.  When judged as a member of the Star Wars pantheon, it becomes totally abysmal.  It's as if Lucas decided to get rid of everything that was magical and wonderful about the first trilogy, and replace it with the most unimaginative feculence he could conjure up.  I'm serious.. it's like he purposefully tried to make the worst prequel he could.  I can't think of any other reason that would bring about this suppurating carbuncle of a movie.  What's wrong with the movie?  For starters, this is a kids movie.  It was made for kids.  Those of us who grew up with the original series are totally left by the wayside.  Ostensibly, Lucas wants to tap into the disposable income of prepubescent consumers -- they'll buy more Jar Jar Binks paraphernalia than those of us in our 30s and 40s.  While that might make good business sense, it doesn't really make for a good movie.  Contrast that with the original Star Wars, or Empire Strikes Back -- they were gritty, and darkly ominous.  There was nothing cute -- for the sake of being cute (and selling toys) -- until we reach the end of Return of the Jedi (where, unbelievably, a race of upright hamsters (ewoks), using neolithic technology, somehow manages to defeat battle-hardened, particle beam weapon toting, Imperial Stormtroopers.  If stunted hirsute humanoids, using stone age weaponry, can defeat Imperial soldiers, how the heck did the Empire come to exist in the first place?!).  Back to my point: basically, you don't have to make a &quot;kids movie&quot; to appeal to kids -- you more than proved that with A New Hope and Empire Strikes Back.  The pacing in this movie is so hurried.  It's like Lucas felt the need to cram as much stuff into the allotted run-time as possible.  We never get a chance to sit back and appreciate our surroundings, or learn much about the characters (beyond the purely superficial).  We just zip from one scene to the next.  Jar Jar Binks: Quite possibly the worst character ever put to celluloid.  I've got a tip for anyone making a movie: if you're going to have a character who is blatantly nothing more than comic relief, it would help if the character was actually funny -- as opposed to being downright annoying.  Jake Lloyd was terrible as young Annikan.  I don't care if he's a kid... I've seen child actors who are light years better than Mr. Lloyd.  Also, what's the deal with Annikan &quot;accidentally&quot; blowing up that Imperial capital ship?  Apparently, the Rebels should begin heavily recruiting precocious nine year olds -- apparently the empire has no defense against attacks that are simultaneously &quot;cute&quot; and &quot;goofy&quot;.  I could go on forever about how disappointing this movie is -- but I'll stop here.  There was one highlight of this movie: Darth Maul.  He was, seriously, the only character that I liked.  Unfortunately, he only enjoys maybe 15 minutes screen time, and then he's summarily killed at the end.  Too bad.  My rating: 3/10."
"This was the most anticipated film of all time. Imagine the disappointment when it came out. This movie was insultingly bad on so many levels. George Lucas seems to think that CGI would make the Star Wars franchise so much better. Wrong! The Phantom Menace and Attack of the Clones were mere shadows of the first three movies. Movies he has also seen fit to put his revisionist hand on. Someone needs to stop Lucas before he screws up Indy 4. The film does have good special effects. This is it's only good point however. The cast doesn't have the charisma of the old one and Ewan Mcgregor was a bad choice for Obi-Wan. Jar Jar Binks sums up everything that is wrong with this film. It was made for the kiddies who weren't even alive when Star Wars came out. It completely forgets the Gen X fans that have made Star Wars so big and Lucas so much money. Bottom Line: A betrayal to the fans and to the world. You must see it if you haven't. I know you must. It needs to be seen to put the originals in the proper perspective. You know, classic film vs. hackneyed &quot;prequel&quot;."
"The story fails to create or maintain any interest.  Considering the amount of money put into a film like this it will have something to &quot;wow&quot; you with and indeed looking at the scenery, the costumes and some special effects is worth something. That's it though. The acting is horrid, but it's hard to blame them too much because of the wooden and uninspiring script they were given.  The Phantom Menace is an insult to the fine Star Wars tradition of A New Hope and The Empire Strikes Back."
"I thoroughly enjoyed the lively sci-fi comic book story that was the original trilogy. I liked the characters and, even though they were sometimes cheesy, they were fun and you actually cared about what happened to them. With Episode I, Lucas has turned out one of the most vapid and stupefyingly unoriginal movies ever. Furthermore, the character of Jar Jar is perhaps the most irritating science fiction sidekick ever. I remember the audience groaning every time he opened his mouth. And if that wasn't enough, there are numerous offensive racial undertones which have already been brought up in discussion numerous times."
"Saw this horrible piece of moviemaking a while back...  I only have one comment: why did a wonderful triology in the truest war movie tradition, where difficulties mean that people die and the evil enemy behaves like one, become a child's movie where an eight-year-old saves the day?  RIDICULOUS!  If you haven't seen it, don't bother. Boycott the other installments of the &quot;new&quot; triology."
"There are many reasons why this movie was such a disappointment. I'll name two (avoiding the obvious one: Jar-Jar Binks!!!): (1) the heavy reliance on CGI animation; (2) the inappropriate use of humor.  Firstly, CGI animation has its utility in creating scenery, background motion, etc., but whenever it is used to portray a main character it ALWAYS looks fake! 100% of the time. CGI is so easy to spot that it repeatedly &quot;removes&quot; me from the movie and forces me to observe, &quot;that was done on a computer&quot;. Puppetry and models seldom cause this effect because they are at least corporeal objects that occupy &quot;real&quot; space and do not precipitate such a sharp distinction between reality and computer. The case in point is that it is disastrous to the movie experience to be repeatedly &quot;removed&quot; from the story. In addition, CGI was used to create creatures that from an evolutionary standpoint were nonsensical, and from a visual standpoint were just plain goofy. Atrociously goofy!!!  Secondly, the jocular attitude of the film came off not as funny, but goofy as well. The gags were silly and sophomoric, as was much of the dialog (e.g., &quot;Yippee!&quot;). The jokes were obviously 20th Century American which seems very out of place in a galaxy far, far away (take for example: Jar-Jar stealing the &quot;ex-squeeze-me&quot; line from &quot;Wayne's World&quot;, and the goofy sportscasters trying to sound so American, just for starters). In the better Star Wars movies, Harrison Ford (the pusillanimous C3-PO, and others) masterfully contributed great situational humor not from mere silliness, but from their reactions to events, which I believe is a higher form of comic relief. Here things were so absurdly silly that the attempts at humor were annoying, not funny. It appears to me that a conscious effort was made to make this movie ridiculous. Compare how dangerous the Stormtroopers felt in the better Star Wars movies to the Battle Droids who were not just inaccurate or unreliable, but ridiculously goofy! The moment where humor actually worked(!) in this movie was when the Sand People were shooting at the pod racers -- now that was a great moment!  On the positive side, the scenes with an actual human element in the characters were very good. The light saber fight scene at the end was the saber-fight par excellence! The costumes, sets and sound effects were stunning and beautiful. Had there been more acting and less cartoonish animations and goofy gags this could have been a good movie. Nay, great! As it stands, I'd be exceedingly generous to give it a &quot;C-&quot;.  Thus spake Yoda: &quot;Fail this movie did, because serious it was not. Hmmm?&quot;"
"Sorry, but I'll never see this film again because of that ridiculous character, Jar-Jar Binks.  He was unnecessary.  He brought this film down to a grade-school level, when it should have been at least on a teen-age level! So frustrating!  The rest of the film was good.  Take Jar-Jar out and I'd rate it a 7."
"THE PHANTOM MENACE had a promising acting pedigree. So why did it come across with all the chutzpah and frission of an extended Infomercial? I don't know exactly why, but the responsibility lies squarely on George Lucas' shoulders.  STAR WARS had zing. The film was peopled with characters (though cliched) not just actors playing 'roles'. George apparently wrote and directed this film. He and his cast had nothing to lose and everything to gain. EMPIRE was also good. Lawrence Kasdan had a hand in this and JEDI, and the maturity of a more seasoned writer showed through.  THE PHANTOM MENACE is, in comparison, like another movie entirely. The actors deliver lines so poorly, with such a lack of personality, wit, and charm, that they ALL could have been computer-generated, like in FINAL FANTASY, and the film would have been just as involving. Jesus, TOY STORY has more humanity in its 77 minute running time than the much longer PHANTOM MENACE.  I believe that Lucas went it alone. He should have hired a real writer to help him. Harlan Ellison, Michael Mann, Kasdan, someone who could do it properly. Look at Kubrick. He always tried to work with very well-respected writers, novelists in the main, when developing scripts. I think Lucas wanted to blow everyone away with his 'written and directed by' credit. But, old sport, it back-fired. It was a brave attempt, for sure. Still, watch LORD OF THE RINGS, X-MEN, or any number of fine fantasy films for greater examples of efficient character development. Or even STAR WARS EPISODES 3-5 for that matter.  And the survey says...  It stinks."
"The Good - Ewan McGregor, Natalie Portman, and Liam Neeson did a fantastic job with the limitations of such a script, and with the pressure of being part of such a vast franchise. Neeson reminded me of the Ben Kenobi we all know from the originals. Ewan McGregor's part wasn't as big as I'd thought it would be, but he was cast PERFECTLY as a young, impatient Obi-Wan. Natalie Portman is great in every movie I've seen her in, and she holds her own in this one as well. The light-sabre battles in the movie are breathtaking and significantly improved from the originals. Incredible special effects in general.  The Bad - Jar Jar Binks, enough said.  For some reason, George Lucas thinks he is funny. The only times I laughed were during the discussions between R2D2 and C3P0 (&quot;I beg your pardon, but what do you mean--naked??&quot;) This movie is also WAY too talkative, as many scenes involve the characters just sitting around talking, and that doesn't seem to bold well with the name &quot;Star Wars&quot;.  The Corny - Episode I has some really corny lines throughout the course of the movie.  Two notable examples come to mind. First, Anakin Skywalker's mother, Shmi, had just about the worst lines one could possibly imagine. I can't believe someone actually proofed her script and said &quot;this is good, lets go with this&quot;. I literally cringe every time she speaks.  Second is the supposed &quot;romance&quot; blossoming between Anakin and Padme.  Even though there's only supposed to be 4 years difference between them, Padme looks MUCH older than Anakin, and it just doesn't work (I heard they won some magazine award for &quot;Worst On-Screen Couple&quot;). The dialogue between them is also pretty laughable, but I won't even go into it.  All in all, though, if you're a fan of Star Wars, this is a must see. Darth Maul is creepy in a great way, and the plot, though a little complicated and a little too political, is still pretty good, as it sets the stage for the later movies in the 'Prequel Trilogy'.  You might want to fast-forward the scenes with Jar-Jar and Shmi Skywalker, though."
"I can't believe how much this entire saga is overrated, how can you love a series so much? I don't know. Look at this film, Insipid dialogues, horrible acting, ugly actress like Natalie Portman who act like a garbage bag and a script so poor that it deserve to be put in a garbage truck. At least Carrie Fisher had her sexy bikini in Return of The Jedi.  Well, at least Darth Maul was cool."
"Top ten reasons I gave this movie a rating of 4/10.  10. It's too long.  9. Even WITH the force, Yoda probably couldn't go from the muppet you see here to the cool *ss Jedi teacher we saw in Empire.  8. Natalie Portman can act, but has for some reason decided not to.  7. This is not supposed to be a comedy.  6. Even if it were, Jar Jar is not funny.  5. CGI battles don't look remotely realistic, even for sci-fi fantasy.  4. Too much politicking, not enough action.  3. A bazillion talented kid actors out there, and Lucas picks this little dork? This is Darth Vader, for cryin' out loud.  2. Speaking of which, Darth Vader makes C3PO? Come ON...  1. Three of the four rating points go to the VERY cool Darth Maul light sabre duels. The other one goes to Ewen MacGregor's excellent Alec Guinness impression."
"I'd never associated words like 'slow', 'tedious' or 'incredibly dull' with the 'Star Wars' series... until I sat through 'Phantom Menace'. I was never the world's biggest 'Star Wars' fan, but at least the other three movies were entertaining and exciting to watch; if I wasn't a Natalie Portman fan I'd have walked out of this one early on."
"I admit I would not be as scathing about this movie were not a Star Wars prequel, however that is part of its problem - and its still rubbish anyway. The original Star Wars films are wonderful and to have this horrendous cringe-fest tacked on to the start is sad. This movie is never scary or thrilling, whereas Darth Vader still gives me the chills: memo to Ray Park - takes more than a cape and make-up to be scary and as for the racist-stereotype chinese badguys, awful. Jar-Jar is an awfully annoying character, as are his froggy friends - more racist stereotypes. And I know that we already know what happens in part 4, but couldn't they have at least tried to instill some mystery - even if you were a Star Wars virgin you'd have to be deaf and blind to miss the fact Palpatine is a bad guy, yet at the same time they pretend we might not have realized by keeping his face hidden! Positives? Some nice martial arts fight sequences. Some great effects obviously. The Wacky Racers sequence was fun but silly - like a lot of this movie, I guess."
"This film should have been the greatest of all time, it had everything going for it. A huge budget, a great storyline, already well established in the public eye and 20 years to work on it. What I cannot understand is why George Lucas felt he needed to create a film that was designed purely to sell merchandise. He has no need for the money so WHY? The result of all this is a third rate kids film. Yes it has great special effects but it does not make up for the complete absense of plot, structure and characterisation. I can find very little by way of good things to say about this film, and I hold little hope for the next two movies either, I just hope that the money Lucas made from selling Ja Ja Binks lunch-boxes makes up for the total loss of respect from every true star wars fan out there."
"As everyone who loves Star Wars I was looking forward to this film with such delight. However after viewing this film, i left the cinema with utter disappointment. I think that this flim was made purely for money. There is not indepth story of the characters. Infact there are far too many of them.  However the only good point on this film was the relationship between anakin and the queen. But even that was limited!  I thought this flim was more like $tar War$: The pure con. Lucas built he's house from the merchandise of the charaters ouy of the first trilogy, and with all the charaters in this, he could buy a country.  I felt the flim destroyed the Star Wars feeling totally."
"George sold out!  The only redeemable feature of this no-plot, no-character, poorly acted movie are the special effects.  Any movie that was 26 years in the making should be EXPONENTIALLY better than this.  George just decided to cash in.  Makes me wonder if he ever actually had any talent at all (THX, AG, and SWIV notwithstanding).  Very disappointing."
"Why?  When I was 3 years old, I had the immense privilege of attending a real cinema. To watch &quot;Star Wars&quot;. I might have seen a lot of movies before (the Disney classics), but one thing is for certain: I don't remember anything about them. But I remember where I went to see Star Wars. I remember the little space ships hanging from the ceiling. I remember standing in line for hours. And being amazed by this story which I was not yet old enough to understand. The same rush happens when I watch Star Wars at home today. I certainly believe I have seen that movie more than 100 times in my lifetime; and I think that it is and will be my favorite movie forever.  Sadly, I only saw &quot;Phantom Menace&quot; once. I did buy the videocassette (VHS in these days of DVD? Give me a break, Lucas!), and never watched it. The movie is just too boring, too slow, too dumb, too vain to be called Star Wars. I waited to see this movie for a long time. I actually went to the 3:00 AM screening the day it came out. And, oh boy, what a disappointment it was.  I don't know where to start. The first one had Luke, the naive but likeable hero; Princess Leia, a nice (not gorgeous, but nice) leading lady; Han Solo, played to perfection by Harrison Ford, and the granddaddy of all baddies, the one and only Darth Vader. The new one has an irritating kid that can only yell &quot;Yippie!&quot; every now and then, a princess who cannot move due to her customes, a lifeless Obi-Wan, who spends most of the time looking worried and speechless, a boring Qui-whatever (Liam Neeson in Star Wars?!?!), and the worst character ever to grace a movie screen: Jar Jar Binks. Makes me think the Ewoks deserved an Oscar for Best Performance. Even the bad guy looks like a circus clown with nice moves. Please!!!  The magic is gone. I sure wish Lucas packed his bags and went home to develop a new THX system, or to give more money to his special effects team. Those are his strengths. But his weaknesses (poor storytelling, dumb plot as full of holes as a swiss cheese and wooden acting) show up all through this boring and lifeless movie.  The only thing that saves it is the Pod race. And watching Jabba the Hut. Other than that, it's the worst movie I have ever seen in my life, just because it dared to call itself &quot;Star Wars&quot;. Maybe if it had gotten any other title, I would have been more benevolent (Howard the Duck II, perhaps? =)  Caveat emptor."
"Just because you have the first 3 Star Wars movies does not mean that you need to purchase this piece of trash.  Lucas has lost his direction- he has no idea what made the first 3 films great.  He needs to understand that the script is 1000% more important than all the special effects in the world.  If you re-watch &quot;Star Wars&quot; or &quot;Empire&quot; after wathing &quot;Phantom Menace&quot; you see that the first 2 had CHARACTERS.  The interaction between the characters, especially Han and Leah or Han and anyone is the reason why the movie worked.  All the interaction is gone in this film because everyone and everything is a special effect.     And regarding Darth Maul, has there ever been a less effective character in a major picture?  Unlike Darth Vader, we never know who this Darth Maul is or why he is trying to kill the heroes, thus we don't care about him.  And Lucas should know that when you don't care about the character, the scenes become useless.     This movie is an embarrassment!"
"I get the impression that Lucas did not even go back and /watch/ the first three moves before making this one. My list of complaints is great, but I will try to keep it down to my major criticisms.  1)Not only did I find Jar Jar annoying, but his accent and attitude struck me as some how racist.  2)Why is the technology of the past so vastly different (and seemingly superior) to the technology of later years? This made absolutely no sense to me.  3)It seems as though everything interesting and mystical about the force was taken away in favor of more 'technology' that does not show up in other films.  4)The acting was miserable, even by the good actors. They were not given good enough dialogue to work with. Anakin was hopelessly wooden and uninteresting. There was not a single character that I cold feel any empathy towards.  5)Why do we care about the past anyway? We already know what happens, ultimately. Lucas should have focused on telling us about the future.  6)While ultimately, all the Star Wars movies are meant more for children, Lucas catered this movie far too much towards them while ignoring those who made his movies popular in the first place."
I have read the other users comments: &quot;One word: GREAT&quot;.  I said: What ??? Did they see &quot;Star Wars: A new hope&quot;???  My word about Episode 1 is only one: disappointment!!!.   I pretend more from George Lucas: he waited 20 years.  Unfortunately the premises are contained in &quot;The return of ...&quot;: attract children mean attract money (merchandising...)
"Okay, I'll admit it - I gave into the hype. I stood in line for four straight hours in order to get tickets opening day. I should have known better; I wasn't even a huge fan of the original three films. But GEEZ! Couldn't Mr. Lucas, producer of the great Indiana Jones entities among other things have come up with something BETTER??? I mean, R2D2 and C3PO had NO place in this film. They were just there to appease certain Pez candy dispenser collecting freaks in the audience (you know who you are). The costumes were not clever, though one could tell they were trying so desperately to be. I'll admit the special effects and sound were good, but there simply were too many special effects and not enough substance!  Believe it or not, I though Jar Jar Binks was perhaps the most entertaining creature in the film, even though his &quot;how rude&quot; saying annoyed me; especially after Stephanie Tanner so vastly over-used it in the Full House television show."
"If you go watch this movie as &quot;The Phantom Menace&quot;, than you can say it is quite good. But if you watch it as &quot;Star Wars - Episode one&quot;, than you have a piece of crap. It is indeed the worse Star Wars movie, but ISOLATED it's good. &quot;The Phantom Menace&quot; - 3 of 5 &quot;Star Wars - Episode one&quot; - 1/2 of 5"
"Call me a sucker, but I loved the original Star Wars movies, in spite of some of their obvious hokiness.  In this installment, special effects have made a stunning leap forward since the first movie, but -- and I know this is hard to believe -- the age of the target audience and the quality of the script have taken an equal step back.  &quot;The Phantom Menace&quot; seems squarely aimed at the video-game playing 8-year and under crowd -- can you spot the scenes that will be made into games? (And that appear to only be there for that very purpose?)  Literally every scene with young Anakin in it was painful to watch, so clumsy was the writing -- even the actors (actors?) seemed embarrassed at times.  Did the marketing department insist that a young boy be included as a marketable hero, for the merchandise customers to identify with?  What's there to like?  The light saber fights, and the special effects; all extremely well done.  If some of the other scenes (alluded to above) had ended up on the cutting-room floor, the movie wouldn't have been any more devoid of plot and in fact, I'd have enjoyed it a lot more overall.  In summary: I loved the glitz, but not near enough to make up for the embarrassingly bad, toy-marketing-driven script.  A good friend called the movie &quot;The Phantom Plotline&quot;.  Well said.  The merchandise is real enough, though."
"We've all been waiting quite a while for George Lucas to come out with his highly-anticipated prequels for the Star Wars Trilogy.  And while this one fills the void somewhat, I would be lying to say that I wasn't disappointed. While the much-touted fx are quite extravagant, Lucas glops it on, like so much computer-generated katsup, covering up the gaping hole created by a thin story &amp; even thinner characters.  As usual, everything in the Star Wars universe is shown in black and white: you are either good or evil, no shades in between, no complex characters or motivations that complicate real life, where on occasion good people perform evil deeds, etc.  No, that would take too much effort to show.  The bad characters are obviously, irredeemably bad, and are made-up to show it, while the good characters are flawlessly good.  While I liked the scenes showing the planets, but didn't care much for the people who inhabited them - the Naboo are obviously the &quot;white&quot; people, and they are rather bland and vanilla; the leathery Gronks (sp?) are the &quot;dark&quot; people, and are given a horrifying accent &amp; exaggerated movements; the Trade Federation people seem only interested in money &amp; have pretty obvious &quot;oriental&quot; accents.  I'm not sure what Lucas is trying to say here, but it seems fairly sophmoric.  Let's get one thing fairly clear here: Ja'r Ja'r, or whatever the hell his name is, is a constant irritation &amp; obvious plot device.  He's worse than that annoying little kid that ruined Indiana Jones &amp; the Temple of Doom.  And while we're at it, Anakin Skywalker is pretty irritating too, although that maybe partially blamed on a weak script and some pretty amateurish acting.  Liam Neeson &amp; Ewan McGregor are both fine, especially McGregor, whom we hope has more to do and say in the next picture. Natalie Portman trys to overcome the shortcomings of the script, and that's good for something I guess.  The fight scenes with Darth Mol are very good; I wish moore had been shown - except what's up with the orange laser door thing??  Too many things happen for no explainable reason; these poorly masked plot devices which are used to push the moovie along manage to drain much of the energy of the film.  This is especially true of &quot;The Force&quot;, the supreme deus ex machina which allows the good characters to get away with practically anything, no matter how ludicrously far-fetched. This moovie also finally shows something even more useless than imperial stormtroopers: the Republic battle 'droids.  These pathetic metal fodder spend the entire moovie shooting their little laser guns, hitting nothing, and getting decimated by everything.  As a matter of fact, Naboo is invaded and involved in a war, but you'd never know because almost no one dies, there is no blood, and the only ones who get &quot;killed&quot; are the poor battle 'droids - but it's ok because they are robots, and they don't count, so bring yer kiddies so we can sell moore toys.  Yes, this sounds a bit cynical, because this could have been a great, mammoth moovie, if only Lucas had put some time and effort into telling a good story with well-rounded characters, instead of loading up the eye-candy.  But if you liked Independence Day or Armageddon, ie &quot;see shiney things go boom&quot;, chances are you'll love this as well.  I think die-hard Star Wars fans will be disappointed at the lack of depth."
"The question is: Does Star Wars Episode 1: The Phantom Menace satisfy the craving that has been growing within us true fans since 1983? In all honesty, no-but it does offer major promise for the next two films, and if possible, makes the wait for what is to come all the more exciting. Think of TPM as a prologue-and we true believers must have faith that what is to come will be beyond anything our paltry human movie-going minds have ever encountered. What TPM does is set a stage, introduce us to the characters who will become the focus of the story line that is to come.  The film's most serious deficit is that there is so much going on in the film that our excitement is diffused-for example, there are four different elements (or points-of-tension) to the climax. While that sounds suitably spectacular (and it is), the viewer is left with only tastes of the action set pieces we have come to adore as Star Wars fans (space battles and light saber duels). One of the things that made the first movie so successful was its simplicity; the original attack on the Death Star had our full attention, and it was this intensity that allowed us to be transported away from our lives to Star Wars Land. Here we marvel at the complexity of the story line, but miss that rush of kinetic energy created by the gravity of a simple plot pulling us along to its final confrontation. The film is certainly epic- huge battalions take their places on a field, myriads of star ships launch an &quot;only hope&quot; attack, the galactic politicos and bureaucrats in their football stadium-sized senate chamber debate the fate of the free world-but in all the scope we lose sight of the characters we came to see in the first place, and so it all goes by without really registering on the viewer's emotional meter. So, to a certain extent I agree with critics in their claims that Lucas has populated his movie with fantastic sights that the audience never get a chance to care about.  There are other issues as well: Jake Lloyd as Anakin Skywalker, is a bit too much of a moppet for my tastes, but I think the major problem is the way his character is written. I do wish Lucas had called upon Larry Kasdan to work with him on the dialogue, as Lucas himself admits that writing is not his forte. There is a plot point involving Anakin's father that would have been better left alone, and Lucas has a sizeable hole to dig himself out of as a result.  Then there is Jar-Jar Binks: if you hated the Ewoks, you might as well write off this character straight away. For all of Lucas' good intentions, his sense of humor seems right for children (ie. recurrent burp jokes in Return of the Jedi), but leaves anyone older than ten feeling a bit left out. Jar Jar is this films humorous centerpoint, except he ain't funny. Whereas Chewbacca endeared himself to the audience over the span of three movies, and not really coming into his own as a character until the second film, Jar Jar is introduced right away and has a sort of &quot;Love me!&quot; freneticism that is irksome from the beginning. We can only hope that he will be left behind for the next films.  If you have read this far, you may be of the mind that the most anticipated movie of all time is a complete bust. But this is very far from the truth-the wonder of the movie is that despite all these deficits, there is still more than enough to make it succeed as a truly exciting and enjoyable movie-going experience. The special effects, production design, and sound are all mesmerizing-the movie has a verisimilitude to it that makes the film both fantastic and believable, just like the previous three films. Liam Neeson, Natalie Portman, and Ewan MacGregor, the three &quot;star&quot; leads, all turn in decent performances (let us remember that strong acting has never really been the Star Wars movies' drawing factor). And yes, Darth Maul is a badass.  But what TPM succeeds at the most is getting us ready for what are certain to be intense Episodes 3 and 4. Like the tagline says, &quot;Every saga has a beginning,&quot; and where the original Star Wars had to succeed as a self-contained story (no one knew for certain if there would be sequels), the later installments were constructed as chapters in a continuing, truly-epic story arc. In TPM, we meet the Jedi Council, we see the Galactic Senate in session, and we witness the first stage of the events that will define the context of the worlds we came to know in the first three films. This is no small task, as Lucas has not shied away from creating a complex story scenario involving rival spiritual factions, corrupt politics and eroding governments, and how one small boy fits into it all.   Star Wars Episode 1: The Phantom Menace is a prologue, and for all its deficiencies, its spectacle is enough to satisfy most audiences who want just a great cinematic ride. But to the fans, the movie succeeds because it lays the groundwork for what remains to be told. Lucas has made us all a promise in delivering this movie, a promise which is so tantalizing that the wait for Episode 2 will be even more excruciating than those three years I spent as a child wondering if I would ever see my galactic totem Han Solo out of his carbon freeze."
"In the long line to see this film, several people and I agreed:  The sixties gave us Star Trek. The seventies gave us Star Wars. The eighties gave us Highlander. ....and the nineties gave us Star Wars again.  The Phantom Menace is AWESOME! How can I talk about the plot without giving away a part of storyline, thus breaking the code of silence the Star Wars fans have all sworn (and I can't let George Lucas down, can I?). But let me just say this: the action is awesome (the finest light saber warfare yet filmed), the characters are over the top, and the villains....led by Darth Maul, are wonderful (though they'll never be Darth Vader).  I grew up with Star Wars, so it was wonderful to see Yoda and C3-PO are Artoo again. The plot is great (a lot tamer and political than the other three, but I think Lucas intended it that way...after all, this is answering all the questions of the first films...not everything can be as exciting...but they can be just as entergetic), and the direction is crisp. My personal favorite character is the Captain of the Princess's guards (kinda of the silent, Terminator type), but everything about it is wonderful. True masterpieces in filmmaking are the movies that draw you into it so much, you're literally sad when the credits start rolling. This is one of those films, and I can't wait till Episode Two. But until it pops up, drop what you're doing and go see this work of art, and be amazed at the fact that George Lucas still is KING!  Awesome, awesome, awesome...."
"A bit disappointing.  Way too heavy on the computer generated action;  I felt like I was watching an animated feature, not a Star Wars movie. Overall, a good movie, but the Babylon-5 feel to it made it a bit out-of-place in the SW series.  Some of the lines are absolutely horrible. The last thing this movie needed was aliens running around ripping off old Mike Myers lines.  Excellent lightsaber duels and pod race scenes.  I'd rate it much higher if they had stayed away from the overly cute taglines (don't get me wrong -- I love some of the cheese from the originals) and the CG. Best line of the film:  Obi-wan's first line, &quot;I have a bad feeling about this.&quot;"
"Perhaps you've heard about a few less-than-stellar reviews for the latest Star Wars film.  Considering the hype and expectations of this film, you could be certain that a number of reviewers would be exceedingly tough on the film.  Well, ignore all of that.  If you enjoyed any of the previous installments of Star Wars then you'll enjoy The Phantom Menace.  We all know George Lucas and his style of storytelling... let's just say that he speaks better with visuals than with words.  But what visuals! This has got to be the most visually stunning film ever made.  Lucas has done on film what Tolkien did in novels... created a wholly believable, realistic universe.  To be able to translate that to film and to do so convincingly is an amazing achievement.  Chances are that you'll find yourself wanting to see this film a couple of extra times just to see all of the scenery, creatures, the pod race, and the light saber duels again.  The dialogue isn't exactly Shakespeare, and the character development and relationships aren't exactly deep.  Then again, the Star Wars series isn't about that sort of thing.  Shakespeare in Space might be an interesting idea, but its time has yet to come!  What we have in Menace is a decent script with solid characters, respectable acting and a heavy reliance on visual storytelling ... by the way, this is also what we had with the other Star Wars films.  We might gripe a bit about how the story is too adult for kids and too childish for adults, but that's something that we can live with, considering the end product.  My biggest gripe about SW:TPM concerns the comic relief character, Jar Jar Binks.  He is at times irritatingly childish, and made me recall how I thought the Ewoks really detracted from Return of the Jedi.  He does manage to be amusing at times, but his accented English was so muddled that I didn't understand 1/4 of what he said.  Also, his body movements smacked of a computer-generated effect, and not so much a living, breathing being.  I found myself wanting less Binks silliness.  A minor gripe is the short-lived career of Darth Maul, who made for quite the menacing, animalistic, evil dark force.  He had great potential as a precursor to Darth Vader's dark side.  But his on-screen time was exciting, and his light saber duels were eye-popping and thrilling.  In the end, this film isn't going to satisfy the viewer who thinks Ingmar Bergman is the greatest thing in filmmaking.  However, any viewer who enjoyed the previous Star Wars films will be very pleased with Menace. This is a movie for fans, not for critics, and it should enjoy much-deserved great success.  When the film is over, and you're swimming in a sea of fantastic images, excited thoughts of what will come in the next film, and trying to figure out when you'll come back to see Menace again, you'll realize that you were entertained for 2 hours and the time flew by.  I wish I could say that about most movies I see."
"Well, as I catch up on sleep from the midnight screening at Q Cinema 9 here in Omaha, let me say this. The critics are dead wrong. This is a great movie. Definitely not the best ever, but still very good with a good shot at beating Titanic's record.  The first hour was a little slower paced than I would have preferred, but in hindsight so are the first hours of the first 3 movies. Once the movie hits the pod race scene, however, the movie is vintage Star Wars.  The pod race scene and the final battles (or 4 parts of one battle) are awesome, especially Darth Maul vs Obi-Wan and Qui-Gonn. Vader and Luke never had a lightsaber fight that was that intense or stunning.  The special effects are the best ever in a movie. The soundtrack and sound effects are probably up near or at the top as well. The acting is average, but go look at the first movies, not exactly outstanding either.  The biggest downfall is Jar Jar Binks. I realize Lucas made these movies for kids, but Jar Jar is nothing more than annoying to anyone over the age of 10. They could have at least made his speech understandable instead of slurred or subtitle it. One other thing I would have done differently was give Maul more screen time and Jar Jar much less.  Overall this was a must-see movie, if for nothing else than to see the best special effects ever combined with a great soundtrack and sound effects.  My ratings: acting: 5 plot: 7 Visuals: 10 Music: 10 Sound FX: 10  1st hour(up to pod race): 7 (Visuals save this 1/2 of the movie)  2nd hour(rest of movie): 10  Overall: 8.5-9.0 (Jar Jar lowers it a 1/2 star on his own, and the other flaws, though overshadowed, are still present)"
"I read all of the reviews, and I totally disbelieved them. I wanted to love this movie, I wanted to, so badly...  And instead, I got a film that only manages to achieve adequacy only because of my already-existing relationship with the characters.  Each Star Wars movie preceding (and hopefully succeeding) The Phantom Menace contains a snappy, memorable line in each scene. TPM, on the other hand, has one or two such lines at the most. To boot, there are a number of truly awful lines. The actors themselves do fairly good jobs, but Lucas doesn't ask them emote in any way (with the exception of the final lightsaber duel, which is an example of classic, old-style Lucas magic). I know, I sound just like the reviewers... but it's ALL TRUE.  The effects are amazing, and yet somehow uninspiring. The podrace is great, but the ending is contrived. The lightsaber duels are great, but again, the ending to the final one is rather dumb. The ground and space battles, honestly, just suck. Most of the time, you're amazed at the effects themselves, rather than the images being created. ILM should be commended for their achievement in seamlessly integrated digital characters. But, honestly, you have to expect that for 250 million dollars.  The movie is good-to-okay for Star Wars fans, and fairly abysmal to the uninitiated (unless they happen to be 10 years old). The opening scenes are really, really bad. It gets better, until the final space battle, when it resumes crappiness (basically bad writing, bad directing).  I'm sorry, truly sorry, but against all odds, I found it to be poorly written and poorly directed. Let's hope for the best with Episode 2, which (and I hate to say use this as an optimistic comment) won't be directed by Lucas, who seems to have lost his touch."
"When we think back to the halcyon days of Star Wars, with its timeless narrative, thrilling space battles and heroes, heroines and villains that defined a generation and live on, immortal in the pantheon of popular culture, we realise that for all of their brilliance there was one thing missing: lengthy discussions of tax disputes.  But fear not! In 1999 George Lucas at last recognised his terrible mistake and rectified it to create an accountant/bureaucrat/corporate lawyer&#x27;s science fiction dream movie. Now we have an iconic titles sequence that contains evocative words like &#x27;tax!&#x27; and &#x27;trade disputes!&#x27; in place of nonsense like evil Empires, Death Stars, and the glorious fight between good and evil. Furthermore, spectacles such as epic space battles and outlandish cantinas filled with fabulous creatures are downplayed to make way for marvellous and protracted scenes of thrilling space councils with diplomats and other such august personages earnestly debating trading laws in great detail! It has its critics, for sure, but my response to such naysayers is that Star Wars: The Phantom Menace was and is a visionary work of tax and trade negotiation-based genius."
"After seeing the first prequel of Lucas&#x27; new installment of Star Wars films, I am apprehensive about the next two. Lucas does not have the same humor and charm the first films had. A new cast of characters and actors make it even more distant. The visuals are great, much improved from 20 years ago, but Lucas does not have the same glorious elements of his first trilogy. Those elements include comic relief, inspired characters, and a frightening antagonist. The protagonists here are not as good as the first films. His characters are lacking and the charm just really does not work in the same spellbinding way as the first trilogy."
"I&#39;ll admit, the first time I saw the ads for this movie, I was hooked. I thought it was going to be off the wall, particularly since I was, well, eleven years old and I liked anything in movies which was flashy. And at that age, I loved the film when I went to watch it. It was fun, fast, and fantastic. Explosions, lasers, spaceships, what else could a kid ask for? Then I grew up. I watched the movie again when I was seventeen, and all I could do was gape in horror. I could have sworn I saw a different movie as a child, but going back through it, I couldn&#39;t believe that I had liked it so much. It really reminds me as to how my tastes have changed and how what I look for in a movie has changed. As an addition to the Star Wars saga, I didn&#39;t begrudge it at the time simply because it was, well, another chapter in the Star Wars saga. I loved watching one of my favorite film franchises play out on the big screen. But frankly, in retrospect, I think (right now at 20 years old) it should have been avoided entirely.  Where to start? The writing of this story was abysmal. The writers were looking for some sort of &quot;main bad guy&quot;, so they concocted the Trade Federation, a corporate conglomerate of evil. A good idea in principle, but terrible in execution. Instead of being composed of a variety of aliens, humans, etc. it&#39;s composed of a single type of alien who seem so stereotypically modeled after the &quot;greedy Asian&quot; model that it would make the person who designed the pathetic Klingon stereotype for Star Trek: The Original Series cringe. The fact that they all had thick Japanese accents didn&#39;t really help. So point one was that Lucas apparently didn&#39;t know how to write a good story without including some bad stereotypes.  The second point was the introduction of the Jedi. Liam Neeson&#39;s role as Qui-Gon Jinn was perhaps the high point of the film, since he&#39;s already known for his acting prowess; in fact, it&#39;s hard to find talent like his. The problem is that everything Liam Neeson brings to the screen is offset by the horrible dialogue scripted by Lucas. As Yoda would perhaps say, stilted one-liners and poorly written expository statements a Jedi does not make. Ewan MacGregor didn&#39;t bring much to the role either, although I will admit, his character is far more in keeping with his elderly Alec Guinness counterpart.  The third and worst clincher is, of course, Jar Jar Binks. This godawful Caribbean-stereotyped character whose sole purpose is to fall on his face and annoy the characters at every turn seems to try the patience of every person who is sitting in the theater. He not only is unfunny, but all of his scripted lines consist of making stupid noises and funny (not) faces. The reason people connected with Chewbacca even though his entirety of dialogue was in growling was due to his interaction with Han Solo. Jar Jar Binks&#39; interaction with the other characters makes people want to slice his head off.  And last but not least, Anakin Skywalker. Seriously. What kind of whiny runt of a kid grows up to become a Dark Lord of the Sith? Granted, the actor was something like 13 years old, but his acting was atrocious. Lucas decided to conceive him as some sort of virgin birth in order to give him some sort of mystical quality and that quickly backfired when we find out that he complains ALL THE TIME. He also manages to end up being the hero because he randomly shot off a couple of torpedoes... what? The reason Luke was able to fire off torpedoes and destroy the Death Star was because of his attunement to the Force. Anakin just fired like a blind idiot. Out of character and out of whack.  I can&#39;t give this film a lower rating than it already has because, frankly, it&#39;s got better writing than the other two prequel trilogy films, which just shows you the abysmal depths to which Lucas has sunk the franchise."
"As the first of the three prequels, and therefore the most distant from the original story, Phantom Menace was probably always destined to be the least interesting. I was prepared to accept this film would be mostly background and story development, and that I wouldn&#39;t fully appreciate it until I&#39;d seen Episodes II and III. All fair enough.  But Lucas made the problem worse by starting too far back, to the point where the movie feels almost disconnected from the Star Wars story. The political crisis at the centre of the plot is supposed to highlight the beginning of the Republic&#39;s downfall, but is too mundane and obscure to be engaging. Some trade companies are protesting- big deal. And it&#39;s impossible to make any connection between the obnoxious boy Anakin and the greatest villain ever seen. Perhaps Lucas was trying to highlight &quot;from little things big things grow&quot;- how Anakin&#39;s bratty cockiness foreshadows Darth Vader&#39;s evil? It might have worked if the child Anakin was an interesting character, but he&#39;s just plain annoying and adds nothing to the story. There&#39;s no real reason the prequels couldn&#39;t have started as Episode II did, with Anakin already a young Jedi, which makes this whole movie a waste of time.  There&#39;s also a very leaden feeling to the production, a problem which plagues all three prequels. The spontaneous fun of the originals is missing, and the acting and dialogs is often predictable and wooden. Jar Jar was the one attempt at injecting some humour, and fails horribly. And Darth Maul, the most interesting character of the lot, is largely sidelined. In fact, pretty much everything ends up sidelined by the complicated political posturings that clog up most of the film. Even the battle scenes have a very sterile and forced nature to them, probably because you&#39;re so bored by that stage you don&#39;t care anymore.  The only thing I really liked about this movie was watching Palpatine skilfully manipulate the trade crisis as his first step to becoming Emperor. That&#39;s probably the one and only key element in this movie for fans of the original. As for the rest, you could easily begin at Episode II and not miss a thing."
"&quot;A special effect without a story is a pretty boring thing.&quot; If The Phantom Menace was one&#39;s only clue as to what sort of filmmaker George Lucas is, one would never guess that the above quote is attributable to him. The first episode of the Star Wars saga seems to be nothing but special effects, with no real story to speak of.  One of the biggest problems with TPM is that none of the characters are in any way established. Who are these people? Why should we care about them? The only real glimpse we get into a character&#39;s psyche is a clumsy, &quot;I sense great (emotion) in you, (character).&quot; It&#39;s a good thing those Jedi are around to tell us what everybody is thinking, because the writing sure doesn&#39;t convey it. Especially disappointing is Obi Wan Kenobi, who is completely unrecognizable from his later incarnation. He&#39;s just there, serving no apparent function.  I&#39;ve always felt that Jake Lloyd is unfairly criticized for his performance as Anakin. Sure, he was terrible, but who wasn&#39;t terrible in this movie? Whether it&#39;s the result of the extensive special effects giving the actors nothing to react to, or Lucas&#39;s notorious apathy in working with the cast, several actors who have proved their greatness time and again come across as flat and lifeless in this movie. We&#39;re talking actors the caliber of Liam Neeson, Ewan McGregor, and Natalie Portman. The only people who come out of this unscathed are Pernilla August and Ian McDiarmid, who actually give some depth and complexity to their woefully underdeveloped characters.  Apart from possibly some advance in computer technology, the only real good thing that came from this movie is John Williams&#39; faultless score, which is the only element that actually provides a believable bridge between this prequel and the original trilogy. The music brings life and meaning to all the things that the movie completely botches: the awe and beauty of the underwater city; the tension and excitement of the pod race; the dark underpinnings of Anakin&#39;s innocent character; the menace of Darth Maul; the epic bravura of the final duel. It&#39;s easy to see why John Williams has resided at the top of the composer heap for over thirty years--nobody can score a film like he can. And apart from the gorgeous locations and sets, that&#39;s really all I can muster by way of praise for this unfortunate film."
"...so he wrote and directed a movie for children, complete with an annoying comic character (Jar Jar Binxs) doing exceedingly stupid things during the whole movie, a lot of visual effects and a very simple story. The young Anakin Skywalker, instead of being a shy boy with a little dark sparkle is haughty and unbearable as the majority of children in the average &#x27;80s American comedy. But the worst thing Lucas did, the one that I (and millions of fan) can&#x27;t forgive, it&#x27;s the pseudo-scientific explanation of the Force as the result of a symbiotic organism living in the blood cells of the Jedi... No explanation was needed! The Force is simply a mystical power that pervades the universe and that&#x27;s enough. Shame on you, George!"
"Star Wars: Episode I- The Phantom Menace is like watching a infant being slaughtered before your eyes. What was once a beautiful thing...now mutilated. Why George Lucas would release this horror upon the U.S. is still unknown, but one thing is certain, it shouldn&#39;t have happened. I purpose an immediate removal of all remaining prints to be seized and burned. This abomination of a movie deserves 2 stars if only because the &quot;acting&quot; is comical. Seriously, I laughed my ass off watching this pile of garbage. It has to be more comical than any movie I&#39;ve seen in the past couple years (Besides Star Wars Ep. 2-3...those were a riot!). Bottom Line: Don&#39;t watch this movie, yes, even you have some strange fascination about men with glowing sticks, avoid at all costs. It&#39;s a trap!"
"The Phantom Menace was ripped to shreds by the generation that waited 16 years for another chapter in their beloved Star Wars. Fortunately for me, I am not in that generation. Indeed, the film seemed to have little to do with the original trilogy. Devoted fans may have learned a lesson, not to expect too much from a middle-age writer who has made his fortune. Hype will always outweigh end results. The acting here is lame. The kid who plays Anakin has no personality. He exhibits no signs of being fated to become Darth Vader. There is a disconnect. Special effects dominate. Darth Maul&#39;s potential is never realized. Jar Jar Binks was criticized as a racial stereotype. What I saw was a duckbill dinosaur crashing into Star Wars from Jurassic Park. Phantom Menace is easy to forget."
"The reason the old Star Wars movies are far and away better than the new ones, is because Lucas was only responsible for 20% of the dialog in his original trilogy...And &quot;Empire&quot; is the best of those because Lucas wasn&#39;t even on the set for filming...Some of the best one-liners from those movies were ad-libs from either the cast, director or just people on the set...If you read the &quot;Annotated Screenplays&quot; for the original Trilogy, you&#39;ll find that Lucas&#39; original, unedited screenplays for his first three movies, are just as ridiculous as his new Star Wars movies.  In &quot;The Phantom Menace&quot;, we find that the lack of an outside editor leaves us watching UNNESSICARY scenes that go on forever...Five to ten minutes of pointless dialogue, that explains exactly what we&#39;re going to see VISUALLY in the next few minutes anyway...Every tiny intention and background motivation for every character must be explained on-screen as the entire movie comes to a hault...These jarring stops also accompany any reference to his other films...Hey Lucas, take a cue from Stephen King and only reward the attentive.  Other than being a terrible story, executed terribly and filled with easily forgettable characters, the movie is a triumph of sight and sound...For Home Theater demo purposes, the &quot;Pod Race&quot; and the &quot;Light Saber&quot; fights are amazing...If you want to sell some speakers, impress your friends or make your neigbors angry, this is the movie for you...I&#39;ve always been impressed the production value that comes out of Lucas Film&#39;s ILM studios...But to quote Lucas himself: &quot;A special effect without a story is a pretty boring thing.&quot; (What happened?).  If you&#39;re just looking for an entertaining special effects display with amazing picture and sound, rent any one of Lucas&#39; new Star Wars titles...&quot;The Phantom Menace&quot; gets you started down this road...But if you&#39;re looking for melodramatic, spiritual undertones with the strong character and story development of his original work, you will be VERY disappointed...I&#39;ll warn the viewers at home that like the way The Matix two and three kind of ruin the original, Lucas&#39; new movies definitely take away from his old flicks (as does his &quot;Special Edition Trilogy&quot;)...Watch at your own risk."
"It&#39;s ironic that one of the most anticipated films of the twentieth century will be remembered as being one of the biggest let-downs ever in the history of cinema. While fans eagerly rubbed their hands together in the hopes of an thrilling epic to follow the original trilogy, &#39;Star Wars: Episode I- The Phantom Menace&#39; was instead a lesson in Hollywood greed and a man, namely George Lucas, losing sight of what &#39;Star Wars&#39; was all about. It was no surprise SW were left bitterly disappointed by the dirge &#39;The Phantom Menace&#39; revealed itself to be, a mix of dull dialogue and scenes clearly intended to sell toys to children in the audience.  &#39;The Phantom Menace&#39; charts the early years of Anakin Skywalker, the boy who would grow to be Darth Vader and purge the galaxy of the Jedi. We see how nine-year-old Anakin entered the life of a young Obi-Wan Kenobi and how he eventually came to be Kenobi&#39;s Apprentice as well as his first meeting with Padme, the future mother of Luke and Leia.  Character-wise, Obi-Wan and his Master Qui-Gon are the only ones of really of worth. Ewan MacGregor, as Obi-Wan, and Liam Neeson, as Qui-Gon, depict a Master and Apprentice pairing that is complex mix of familial love and Qui-Gon continually snubbing the young man who adored him as a surrogate father in favour of this new child in his life. Other than that, we have a bland, boring female lead in Natalie Portman&#39;s Padme and then there is Anakin himself and the detestable Jar-Jar Binks.  Anakin, aged nine, would have been a far more effective character had we seen him for being the slave he was instead of this happy-go-lucky all-American moppet. As a teenager, being a slave still deeply affected him but there is no sense of that in this film. Anakin should have been shown to be jaded and pained by what he was and been played by someone who is more solemn, such as Haley Joel Osment (who did audition for the role). Jake Lloyd just wasn&#39;t suited because he was too used to playing family/comedy roles and was too buoyant to properly show the depressing situation Obi-Wan and Qui-Gon found Anakin in. Sadly, people are too quick to blame little Lloyd for the problems with this film when it was George Lucas fully to blame for choosing the cute child over the talented one, and for writing such terrible dialogue for this character.  As for Jar-Jar, the less said about him the better. This was a CGI-character who talked incomprehensible drivel and clearly added to amuse kiddiewinkles with his &#39;hilarious&#39; slap-stick antics. I don&#39;t know about children but anyone over ten are just left cringing whenever he is on-screen. This character is an embarrassment to cinema and would be far more at home in Lucas&#39; infantile &#39;Ewoks&#39; cartoon.  What could have been an excellent prequel exploring what moulded Darth Vader into the complex man he became was ruined by a plot that dithered between being positively childish and overly-political. There are scenes that drag on, bogged down with Padme and the Jedi dealing with the governmental side-plot, and then there are scenes where we have Anakin showing far more competence and ability than the Jedi, obviously trying to create in him a character who appeals to eight-year-old boys in the audience. The ten minute long Pod-race was just an advert to sell a computer game and just didn&#39;t need to be so long.  Overall, this film is passable but really far from enjoyable. It would suit tiny would-be fans of the series who will eventually grow up to watch the original trilogy but any of secondary school age will be left disappointed and bored. Personally, I feel I&#39;m better off just sticking with the originals and forgetting the prequels ever existed."
"Only because of the name Star Wars is what kept the Phantom Menace from flopping in the first place. And only because it was the first Star Wars movie in 16 years is what allowed it to be the top movie in 1999.  The story involves the peaceful world of Naboo being invaded by the greedy Trade Federation, and the first meeting of a 9 year old Anakin Skywalker and Obi-Wan Kenobi, when he was only a Jedi trainee, or what they call a padawan. This movie is suppose to have started the whole Star Wars saga. But unfortunately the prequel is too heavily reliant on the original trilogy and probably the most forgettable Star Wars installment.  As with all Star Wars films, the visual effects are incredible. And special commendations for the incredible alien species shown, excluding Jar Jar Binks of course. The pod racing scene not only meets, but exceeds expectations. But outside of the visual effects, the pod racing scene, the costumes, and the sets, this movie has very little to offer.  Even with a battle sequence near the beginning, the movie is pretty slow and lame. Its level of interest however rockets at the pod race scene, but then it drops after that. And it only inches its way back up at the climax.  The climax of the movie has 3 battle scenes. On the planet of Naboo, the star-fighter sequence in orbit, and the Jedi lightsabre sequence. Out of all those 3, the Jedi scene barely meets expectation. The other 2 are disappointing, despite the special effects.  If the Phantom Menace were to have been released before the original Star Wars, the Star Wars saga would never have taken off. Never have even reached episode 2. If they learned anything from Star Trek, pretty soon, not even the name Star Wars will save the next film, if there were a 7th. And Star Wars will crash a lot sooner than Star Trek."
"I remember seeing Star Wars at age five. I was addicted to Star Wars. I was wondering how The Phantom Menace was going to do. I thought that it was going to be a triumph like the other three, but I was proven wrong. It was an o.k. movie, but the story itself was weak. It filled some of the details, but not all. Also Lucas did a mistake in that movie. In The Empire Strikes Back, Obi-wan says to Luke, &quot;Go to the Degobay system. There you will find Yoda who TRAINED ME!&quot; Master Yoda was the master of Obi-wan, not Qui-gon Jinn, but I have to admit that if it wasn't from Liam Nelson for being in this film, the film would have crumpled. The effects were phenomenal, there was more humor, and a few good action sequences. That was another problem with the film, there was only two real good action sequences, which were the podrace and the battle at the end including the duel with lightsabers, which I thought was awesome, because in the other 3 films, there wasn't much into the duels, except a flip in Episode VI by Luke Skywalker to dodge a blow taht would have cut him in two halves. Another problem was how hokey and corny the film was with some of the creatures including the flying blue thing at the shop, and Sebulba, the podracer, nemesis of Anakin. The other problem with the film was that the dark jedi, Maul was not much of a character. To me, he was an object. You could not hate him or like him, and he didn't talk except five lines, and what was with the horns on his head? He looked like the devil! However, I do love the music of the great duel at the end, which increased the suspense in your body. I give this film a 7 out of 10. Lucas could do better than this. He needs to use more interesting ideas."
"Aged 13 I made a terrible discovery. Not only had I been wrong about the age of consent in the UK but my Father wasn't the man I thought he was. My mother sat me down and told me that Dad wasn't the perfect patriarch I'd envisioned in my youth. In fact he was an adulterous alcoholic with dangerous artistic pretensions. Yes, my Father wasn't so much John Steed, more Olly Reed, his worse moment being a live restaurant urination in front of 300 stunned diners at the Greenwich Steakhouse. Its hard to explain the disappointment I felt at that point but at least I thought after this it would be hard to feel too letdown again by anything.  Not so.  Flash forward to June 1999, New York City. Yours truly is treated to a revisionist revival of Star Wars in which any hope, new or otherwise, that the years may have paved the way for writer/director Geroge Lucas to craft a mature, pared down, excitement laden prequel to films which many people know better than themselves, is dashed with horrific cruelty. Never go back, my old man had said and for once he'd been right.  The Phantom Menace attempts to fill in the back story to the classic trilogy but arguably starts too early in the story. Forgetting completely that the young audience of the original are now slightly more demanding adults, Lucas aims low and hits every time, his target audience preschoolers and under 12's. Attempting to manufacture what happened accidentally via positive communal experience is a dangerous game to play and Lucas doesn't foul so much as get sent off mid-way through the match having butchered all the other players. Jake Lloyd is awful as the young Anakin and conspicuously gives no clues as to motives for future wrongdoing. This of course would make him less heroic to viewers of similar ages thus effecting those all important toy sales. Jar Jar Binks, with a personality as deep as the pixels that create him is an offensively unfunny racial stereotype - a ridiculous and cynical creation. Ewan McGregor as Kenobi manages to demystify the old Jedi Master completely by giving a performance so lifeless he could be a computer generated effect himself and Yoda is realised by sub-standard puppetry that gives him all the authority of an action figure. The simple good versus evil, old serial heroics of the original film are lost here as Lucas tries to tell a more complicated story but forgets to make it interesting. Lucas' pompous script mixes undergraduate politics with some of the worst dialogue ever committed to film. Take your pick from &quot;Wizard!&quot;, &quot;Get this stunted slime out of my presence&quot; or if that isn't quite bad enough for you, what about &quot;Ooooh, sticky goo!&quot;. Lawerence Kasdan was only a phone call away George.  Finally Lucas's return to directing prompted by developments in computer technology serves as the film's conceptual oveur. Not bothered by characterisation or coherent storytelling, skills that made the original film so enduring, this prequel under uses its best characters, overuses it worse and clothes them in wall to wall digitisation, making a hyperrealist construction that fails to engage emotionally on any level. Ultimately, like this review, its just f**king boring and thats the worst charge you could level at a series as iconic as this one. The 'Cus has dismissed any criticism of this the Phantom Menace by pointing out that it's merely the first act in a 6 act series. Fine, but surely they taught Lucas at film school that the first act is supposed to hook the audience. Whoever heard of a first act that DISSUADED an audience from watching the rest. Whichever way you look at it it's poor film-making. Computers are wonderful but they can't compensate for poor storytelling and dull characters. Sorry George."
"Recently, after being asked the stock question, &quot;What was the movie that was the biggest disappointment / let-down to you&quot;, Episode I - Phantom Menace popped immediately into my mind!  This is not because it was the worst movie ever.  Rather it was because of the expectations we all had after a marvelous Star Wars trilogy and then a 16 year absence.  To follow up such a legend, we would have hoped Lucas would have delivered something at least comparable in quality to the originals, especially if you consider the advancements in special effects and other film technology.  The effects are not bad in this movie.  Not great by today's standards but not bad.  Where it falls short is the STORY.  What happened, George???   What interesting elements there are in the story are buried in mire.  While the effects are reasonable - that's all they are.  Reasonable.  The original Star Wars was legendary for groundbreaking effects.  We didn't see anything beyond the level of any other contemporary Sci-Fantasy film.  While this movie is certainly not as bad as many of the brain-dead stories which are typical of today's Hollywood banality, it's not up to the standards of the original Star Wars trilogy.  It's just &quot;another&quot; film of the late 1990s.  Common fodder.  To be honest - we wanted more.  Much more.  It's hard to follow up a legend with a &quot;C+&quot; film."
"Politics in the Galaxy turns ugly with ruthless planet take-overs. The same as the original STAR WARS but with improved special effects. The so-called chariot race is the highlight. And as for the annoying Jar Jar Binks, it worked for the children who laughed along with its silly antics. There's always an idiot in every adventure while the one emotional expressions of the Jedi heroes, (played by Liam and Ewan), supplied the serious side to the story. One definitely for the children and the children at heart. I know my children loved this one and will be cuing for the next instalment."
"I have previously made a comment on this movie, but feel it was simply too brief.  However, I have since viewed it a few times again and can now write a much better-informed opinion... And after reading several of the 2520 reviews here, I can agree and disagree with many of them.  I agree that the original trilogy were rife with your standard science fiction cliches, terrible dialog and schmaltzy aliens...  I agree that Luke Skywalker was little more than a whiny annoying brat, but he was not nearly as bad as the kid in this flick... (OUCH!!)  I agree that Lucas wrote this movie for audience members who are even younger (5 year-olds) than the ones Return of the Jedi was written for (8 year-olds)...  But, in all due respect, T.P.M simply does NOT compare to the first three films!   I don't entirely agree that the aliens featured in T.P.M are racist. Mr Lucas had to come up with some kind of accent for them, didn't he? It's so much simpler to just use Earth accents, because it saves time having to figure out an alien accent for the (mostly) English-speaking aliens. It's better than hearing all the aliens speak perfect American English (AKA Star Trek), I suppose...  Anakin is as bad as others say. His lines are complete schmultz. We get to hear stuff like: &quot;This is tense!&quot; and &quot;YIPPEE!!&quot; I find it hard to believe Darth Vader (who was the Galaxy's most heinous criminal, remember) sounded this hideous, but then I find it harder to believe he was such a perfect angel little kid!! (I sympathize for his mummy, actually). There's ALSO the problem of his immaculate conception thanks to a bunch of 'intelligent bacteria'...  Darth Maul is nothing but a walking cliche, and he gets knocked off at the end. I guess Lucas decided to do him in as quickly as possible to pave the Yellow Brick Road for Anakin. In other words: Darth Maul, YOU ARE THE WEAKEST LINK. GOOD BYE!  We don't need to make any further comments on the inclusion of a certain floppy-eared, seriously unfunny C.G.I-created individual.  Which brings us to the total overuse of C.G.I. It is utterly mind-boggling boring! This much C.G.I serves only one purpose in a movie: To hide the utter lack of a feasible story. A real live model of an Imperial Star Destroyer beats a C.G.I trade-federation control ship hands down. Sorry, Mr Lucas!!  PLEASE, PLEASE, PLEASE MR LUCAS, DON'T CALL THE SECOND INSTALLMENT &quot;ATTACK OF THE CLONES&quot;!!! THIS IS THE WORST NAME FOR A MOVIE I'VE HEARD SINCE BATTLEFIELD EARTH!!!  I *definitely* agree that Mr Lucas has completely lost it with this flick."
"&quot;Star Wars--Episode 1: The Phantom Menace&quot; is a perfect example of how even a movie with as much anticipation and reputation as &quot;Star Wars&quot; can fall flat on its face if not taken the proper precautions. As I watched the movie fail and flop I though to myself in amazement of how easily the present flaws could have been prevented.  George Lucas must have been perfectly content of his prominence here, and must have thought that hard core fans of his work would except anything, no matter how good or bad, that he would lie in front of their starving faces.  The film is said to lead up to the original &quot;Star Wars&quot; trilogy which was supposed to be the middle addition in the series of three trilogies. I hear that there will be many follow ups to &quot;Episode 1,&quot; and that what we see in it will only be the baseline for the rest of the upcoming movies. What the filmmakers are undoubtfully forgetting it that until we see the entire threesome, we really can't judge the trio as a whole. But until we see those movies, we simply have to evaluate &quot;Episode 1,&quot; as a film all on it's own. And as an individual production, it's an inconclusive disappointment.  The story really is two plots in one; the first about a futuristic Queen in turmoil and the second about a young boy who just may be &quot;the chosen one,&quot; by the force. So, what's the force? Being the first in line of a series, it should be the most informative. But these filmmakers assume that audience will already have background knowledge, thus leaving many major plot points absent.  Anyway, the movie opens with a confrontation between two Jedi Knights: Qui-Gon Jinn and  Obi-Wan Kenobi, against bad alien frogs. We meet several new characters, most of them fully computer animated, thus an incomprehensible character audience relationship of what little depth the offer.  Queen Amidala is torn from her nation for protection because the &quot;bad guys,&quot; want her to sign the treaty so that they may do something illegal legal.or something like that.  The visual effects in &quot;Star Wars-Episode 1: The Phantom Menace&quot; are just as you'd expect: some of the greatest in film history, right up there with the ones in  &quot;What Dreams May Come&quot; and &quot;Event Horizon.&quot; They allow us to experience a sense of discovery in every scene. We are entering a period of technological breakthrough here, and we are almost to the point where directors can project whatever he or she imagines on the screen. George Lucas takes advantage fully with &quot;Episode 1.&quot; There is one particular overwhelming sequence where Anakin races his flying pod in a championship race. This scene was so fast paced and articulate that I felt dizzy by the end of it.  The problem with the movie isn't visual effects or storyline, its characters. Stone faced, woodenly acted, poorly presented, dryly written characters. Never are any of them developed, interesting or understandable. The dialogue is blunt, flat and straight forward, never including any imagination whatsoever. Not once did any individual in the film show emotion, facial of physical reaction to any sort of excitement, thus the audience is almost ignored.  I would like to end my review of &quot;Star Wars-Episode 1: The Phantom Menace&quot; by simply asking that you, who probably will eventually see the film, judge the characters not on reputation of the actors or the movie, but on hard merit. I eagerly await the arrival of the next &quot;Star Wars&quot; film, although it may sound like I am an anti-star wars guy by this review. In reality I am surely not, enjoying two out of the three originals. I will doubtlessly receive e-mail, which is welcomed, from many fans who disagree with me on &quot;The Phantom Menace&quot; achievement. I stand firm on disappointment, however. But I continue to have high expectations on the coming attractions. For whenever I saw the young undetailed Anakin Skywalker on screen I thought to myself &quot;There's the real story.&quot;"
"Episode I failed, not only to live up to the standards of the Star Wars series, but to live up to standards of basic cinematic mediocrity.  The movie was bad.  Period.  It has NOTHING to do with &quot;unrealistic expectations&quot; or the fact that it was &quot;only a prequel.&quot;  The movie could so EASILY have been made better, by making some very simple decisions.  Like, ummm...&quot;Let's not have EVERY HUMAN CHARACTER speak in the most monotonous voice they can muster.&quot;  Lucas didn't have to spend an extra half hour &quot;developing&quot; the characters--he just had to give them SOME PERSONALITY--and that has nothing to do with not having the time to &quot;develop the characters.&quot; It's not that we didn't know enough about them--it's that they were mind-numbingly BORING AND PASSIONLESS.  This could SO EASILY have been alleviated.  I don't want to know everyone's life histories--I just want them to be remotely interesting.  Don't tell me that visionary god George Lucas couldn't find a way, in 16 years, to do that simple thing.  Every aspiring screenplay writer and film director in America is giving a collective groan at the UTTER EASE with which Episode I could have been VASTLY GREATER.  I don't blame the actors at all--even Ewan McGregor wanted everybody to know, even before reviews came out, that George Lucas gave no freedom at all to the actors, and it was a directorial decision to make them speak the way they did.  I won't even start with the non-boring, but unspeakably repellant, Jar-Jar Binks.  And don't you dare tell me I didn't love the original trilogy.  THEY had personalities."
"I was prepared to look past any poor acting performances and horrible dialogue bits to review this movie holistically, but unlike the previous three films, The Phantom Menace is riddled with shortcomings and failures beyond those of mere wooden acting or poor scriptwriting.  The high spots in the film, combined with the franchise's celluloid and merchandising legacies, served to carry most moviegoers' spirits after the final credits rolled, evoking a sense of satisfaction tinged with the nagging doubts that perhaps something wasn't right.  What wasn't right?  Lots of things - so many that all of them can't possibly be listed in this critical review.  The standouts:  - The demystification of the Star Wars universe through a ridiculous and horribly inconsistent explanation of the Force (which is completely incongruous with both the spirit of and the explanation of the Force in the other three movies)  - The lack of a definite protagonist and antagonist, and the lack of any built-up central conflict (the only evocative conflict is against someone given less than 20 minutes of screen time, and the Charlie Chan Trade Federation conflict wasn't explained nearly adequately enough to make anyone care)  - The obvious and sickening pandering to an extremly young audience (other Star Wars films did phenomenally well with a younger crowd without containing 10-year old actors, toilet jokes, and the contrived usage of &quot;Full House&quot; slang)  Other minor, yet still severely annoying aspects of this film include Anakin's accidental destruction of an orbiting battle station, anachronistic droids, machines, and ships, obvious contradictions (such as a central control station for autonomous battle droids), the death of the only two characters interesting enough for the audience to care about, the two-headed pod race announcer that spoiled the entire sequence, the cartoonish nature of almost every CGI character, the unexplained turning on and off of the shield generator during the final battle between Maul and Qui-Gon, Palpatine's lame one-line explanation of the failures of the Republic, the ridiculous coincidence brought about by Anakin building Threepio, and last, but definitely not least, the entire character, concept, and execution of the Gungan called Jar Jar Binks.  I was planning on being disappointed if this new movie didn't take Titanic's place at the top-o'-the-heap; now, I could care less.  It deserves to be seen once, but definitely doesn't deserve to be the #1 movie of all time, and doesn't belong in the Star Wars universe.  I wonder if Roland and Dean secretly collaborated with Lucas on this one?"
"Given that the Star Wars trilogy is the central, organizing story of my generation, I and the many millions of hungry fans have every reason to expect a more heartfelt effort than &quot;Phantom Menace&quot;.  There are many elements present here that would normally harpoon a movie (wooden dialogue, holes in plot, lack of character development, etc.). But I forgive Lucas these trespasses- heck, the original featured these sins, too. What is utterly unforgivable is the yawns he generates with second-rate special effects, a poorly paced plot, and a stubborn insistence on using digital effects instead of actors (is he really that uncomfortable around live professionals?). Lucas Arts PR types trumpet the fact that principal shooting was completed in 65 days, and that there were seldom more than three takes per scene. Guess what? Such slipshod production values are apparent in the final product! The digital characters that Lucas takes such obvious pride in look too jerky and cumbersome, like claymation or bad anime. Whereas the Trilogy pushed the technical envelope, this film features pre-&quot;Jurassic Park&quot; effects technology. The frenetic pacing and masterful editing that gave us such wondrous experiences as the Battle of Yavin and the chase through the asteroid belt are absent as well: the cut scenes from &quot;Rebel Assault II&quot; quickened my pulse far more than &quot;Phantom's&quot; climactic space battle, and the heavily hyped pod race was somewhat less satisfying than expected. Even John Williams' score sounds tinny and disinterested (although the choral accompaniment to the superb light saber battle is one of the film's few highlights).  Also troubling were the blatant racial stereotypes- was that Alphonse D'Amato, doing a reprise of his &quot;Judge Ito&quot; remarks, as the Federation Viceroy, or what? And does Lucas hold his audience in such utter contempt that he feels comfortable stealing scenes from Disney's &quot;Aladdin&quot;?  Lucas has been out from behind the camera for too long, and the rust shows. Perhaps more troubling is the sense that he's going through the motions. He can redeem himself (and isn't that what this series is all about?) if he gives us a thoughtful Episode II, but as it stands right now, this film is in serious jeopardy of sinking the whole series: if it wasn't a Star Wars film, I would have walked out within the first 20 minutes. My generation, nay, all the peoples of the Earth, deserve far, far better in the next installment."
"Lucas is getting old. And so is his imagination. The Phantom Menace is not a terrible movie. It isn't even a bad one. The problem is: it's a Star Wars movie. Which means it has to stand next to classics like the original Star Wars (10/10, my score), The Empire Strikes Back (10/10), and The Return of the Jedi (8/10). And there's where it fails.  The cutesy factor -which almost ruined Return of the Jedi- was a sign of things to come. Boy, is this movie cute. From the ready-for-action-figure Gungans characters, to the stupid Federation droids (which look like something between a duck and Calista Flockhart), to the future Darth Vader, known now as Macaulay Skywalker, or something like that. The result is a kiddie movie, which, would've been okay, if the original Star Wars series were kiddie films in the first place.  On the other side, the film visuals are astonishing. There is no doubt this will end up as the best especial effects film of the 20th Century. Unsurprisingly, the John William's soundtrack is also worth the ticket price alone. Pity the plot isn't as state of the art as the rest of the film. Just compare Phantom Menace  scenes with similar scenes from the original series (and believe me, they are many), and you'll see how superior the previous ones were. Another sign that  bigger doesn't always mean better.  But, hey: It's Star Wars, and therefore you MUST see it, right? Lucas deserves to light his cigars with thousand dollar bills! And I'm evil because I say phantom menace is only a flick. How dare I to say such terrible things? How can I be so ignorant? Well, it's just my opinion"
"After watching The Phantom Menace five times over opening weekend, I've come to a conclusion.  The bad reviews are unfounded.  Most of them center on how different TPM is from the classic trilogy.  That isn't bad, it just takes a few moments to readjust your thinking.  If you look at the plot of the movie, it is far more complex than any of the original movies.  Especially if you read the book, which really helps you understand the film.  The performances are a little above average; Liam Neeson does great, Jake Lloyd's okay, Portman's decent, Ewan's good... I especially liked Watto and Darth Maul, but Ian McDiarmid (Palpatine/Sidious) had the best performance. Overall a great film."
"Thank God this was not the first produced picture in the series or the legend would have never existed. Is Menace a bad picture? No. Is it boring? Mostly not. But is it in a different league from other good science fiction movies?  No.  Menace has several serious problems: -We know too much about the future, we know who makes it alive to episodes IV,V, VI. When we see Jedis fight we know who is going to make it. Pretty anticlimactic.  -Visually the movie does little more than recreate some of the Jetssons cartons, earth wilderness and Middle East scenarios. What happened with Lucas imagination? Before he had the excuse of the limitation of special effects, now, what's his excuse?  -Did anyone saw any androids do any real damage. They are the most incompetent force imaginable. Why would anyone, much less an advance civilization use them for anything?  -No Dark Side. Apparently, the origin of the darkside is just some creatures with Jedi capabilities decide to become overambitious and take over. So the darkside has nothing to do with the evil side of the universe, it has all to do with a little gang or Mafia that wants control (all we have to fear is just corruption, pretty pathetic antagonist). The magic, the wonderment, the sensation of weakness when confronted with the dark-side that we experienced before is revealed as unfounded, evil will not take over, it's just smart criminals. Lame.  -It's pretty clear the ultimate intent of the movie: The destruction of the idea of evil. It embraces the Buddhist notion that evil doesn't exist. Only ignorance. People who do bad things (evil) do them out of ignorance, nothing more. If they knew, if they were enlightened they would not be evil. It denies our choice for evil. Of course this idea plays beautifully with liberal Hollywood. Too bad Lucas has resigned the opportunity to explore the largely unknown notion of evil for such a plebeian explanation. And the legend of Star Wars dies."
"Okay -- the effects were great and seamless, there was a cast of great actors, a great score, and an awesome marketing campaign.  So what happened? No plot, no story, no human interest at all!  I was bored and not engaged by anything other than the pretty pictures.  I did not cheer, I did not fear for anyone's safety, I did not care.  JAR JAR sounded worse than a teletubby, this was Star Wars brought to you by Barney.  Cute and harmless! Give me the old story about a simple farmboy, a sassy princess, a wisecracking smuggler and his dog!  And most of all -- don't ruin my dreams about the best villain ever created -- Darth Vader.  I don't want to know that he was a slave to a flying warthog, that he skipped around shouting &quot;yippee!&quot;, or that he saved the day by accident.  I also don't want to know that the FORCE is a bunch of midichlorans in your cells, that takes all the fun out of it.  Some stories are better left untold.  The real PHANTOM MENACE is George Lucas.  He has lost sight of what made the movies great in the first place -- the spunk and plunk of the humans and the humans in robot costumes.  So you can make a 20 story fish eat a 40 story fish?  So you can make podracers travel at 300 mph before our eyes?  But can you make us care?  I did not care about anybody, and I can wait 20 years for the next installment.  Am I a killjoy?  I don't think the critics were HARD ENOUGH on this the most soulless movie since...well, I can't think of one.  And wrapped in such a handsome package to boot.  Amidala says &quot;Space is cold.&quot;  Amen sister!"
"Ok, i was very disappointed by this overblown, cartoon based, stupid movie. I would like to ask Lucas where the script went to and the plot.  The acting was laughable, but I give it kudos for special effects, that's all I will give it."
"This movie is one of the worst movies in science fiction history. Without giving any spoilers, the only things I can say are the following:  ||extremely inconsistent storyline. ||very noticeable plot holes. ||Anakin&#39;s narration of what he is doing and when, during each scene of which he is apart, becomes extremely annoying. Even for 8 year olds, it doesn&#39;t look or feel right. ||Age problems -- Anakin is clearly too young. ||Special effects are stocky, blocky, and could not have been worse if Ed Wood directed them. ||Due to Lucas&#39; intent on using blue screens everywhere, the direction looks staged, ridiculous and confined. In places which should be great grand halls, everyones huddling around center stage. ||Jar Jar Binks is a very racist and overt stereotype of a black Jamaican. I found it morally offensive. Anyone who has anyone else say &quot;Massa&quot; the way Jar Jar says it should take a clear look at themselves in a mirror.  This movie is absolutely unwatchable for anyone with a sense of good cinema. What&#39;s amazing is George Lucas managed to capitalize on these 7 or more bad points on this Episode 1 film, and found a way to make the subsequent films even WORSE!  How could it have been this bad while the original 3 were so great? Simple: a man named Joseph Campbell was on set throughout the filming of the other movies. Those with philosophy and anthropology degrees know him as a man who did the Power of Myth series for PBS. It is clear he kept George grounded. Unfortunately he died long before George did Episodes 1-3 and the absence of the man&#39;s mind is clearly demonstrated in these god awful prequels."
"Truth be told, it was all but impossible to go into this movie without HUGE expectations. Like countless other Star Wars devotees around me, I sat in my theater seat expecting nothing less than cinematic magic. As the lights went down and the first notes of John Williams&#39; triumphant score began to play, the entire audience erupted into a cheer of elation. This was it! We had waited years for this film, but now it was finally happening! Few could&#39;ve foreseen the crushing disappointment that awaited us. The trouble began long before the infamous Mr. Binks reared his CGI head on to the screen. From the outset, it was clear that film-making technology had advanced since the days of the original trilogy- unfortunately for us, Mr. Lucas&#39; gift of storytelling appeared to have atrophied.  The laundry list of mistakes in this film has been lamented countless times across the Internet, in homes, and film classes all around the world- wooden dialog, poorly developed characters, bad casting (much love to Samuel L, but he makes a far better Shaft than a Jedi), and those god-awful medicholorians.  But in the end, the downfall of Episode I (and indeed, the entire prequel trilogy) stems from the director&#39;s infatuation with his own digital technology. In the documentary &quot;From Star Wars to Jedi,&quot; Mr. Lucas stated that, &quot;A special effect without a story is a very boring thing.&quot; As I left the theater that day, trying desperately to convince myself that I had loved the movie, I was reminded of those words which proved remarkably true- this was a film that dazzled the eyes but did nothing to stir the soul."
"This is it; the definite bottom of Star Wars saga. A rehearsal direction made by Geroge Lucas after being so many years without any directional credits in his name. Also this movie worked as technical test field in CGI animated characters and that is very visible.   First of all, there is good things in this movie, such as: Liam Neeson (Qui-Gon Jinn), Ewan McGregor (Obi wan Kenobi), Natalie Portman (Padme) and Ian McDiarmid. Other good actors are in too, but because these I mentioned have most of the screen time, I just mention them.  Then there is the beginning, I loved it, and I loved couple of other scenes in the middle and the ending. That was good (And I'm not talking about the credits here.)  And the music. John Williams is as good as ever. There is no denying that. For these thing is gave my four stars.  So, then to dislikes. Jar Jar (Ahmed best). I've always thought that annoying little thief from &quot;Conan the Destroyer&quot; was annoying character. Jar Jar beats him 1 to 0. Most useless comedic character I've ever seen in my life. Annoying to the bone. Jake Lloyd (Anakin). I know, I know, he's a kid, but kids can act. Haley Joel Osment proved that in &quot;Sixth Sense&quot;. Lloyd just is on the screen. I don't know is his performance due of sheer lack of acting ability or does Lucas's directing style have something to do with it. Hard to tell.  And for last, the pacing of the movie is almost always off. It works in the beginning and during final light saber match, but during those long winded land battles and that god awful pod race scene, pacing and editing is just, well, more off than exploded nuclear plant.  So there. And for additional note, I did like &quot;Attack of The Clones&quot;. It did everything better."
"This was a great movie. And can be more appreciated after watch &quot;Episode II&quot;. It plants the seeds of Anakin Skywalker as a boy with great potential for great things. Which goes great with &quot;AOTC&quot; when we see his innocence shift to darkness. Liam Neeson plays &quot;Qui-Gon&quot; the best Jedi out of the whole series (sorry obi-wan). Darth Maul and Sideous are also great villains. Dig that double-sided lightsaber! This movie does exactly what it sets out to do. Begin the story which is a direct contrast to what the story ends up to be. Thats where all the drama and conflict lies. Jar Jar isn't that bad either. And anyone that calls for the death of a FICTIONAL character needs a life! The story is good, effects are cool. What more can you ask for. Not bad. Not bad at all.  RATING: *** out of ****"
"After 3 years I finally managed to sit thru the whole movie. I stopped watching the movie the first time at the pod chase because I could not just bear to listen to Jar Jar anymore. Lucas should be flogged for ruining a movie and wasting money like that. Yes it's true Lucas has used children's characters like the Ewoks, but nothing in any movie by any director I have ever seen is ANNOYING as having to listen to Jar Jar. He doesn't even make sense. You just pick out a few words from each sentence cause that's all that makes sense. It distracts from the whole movie. Ewoks were for the kiddies but they just squealed or whatever. Jar Jar is by far the worst character ever.  What's up with the Master Jedi Knight Liam going out so weak against the silent Sith dude? He just lets Darth Maul give him a shot to the chest. Very undramatic.  Obi Wan suddenly surprising Darth and taking him out is unbelievable considering what just happened to his master.  Weak Weak Weak. Yes this movie is more expensive to make, but it was a waste of time with Jar Jar thrown in. I refuse to watch any more sequels, until Lucas makes a copy with Jar Jar edited out."
"One of the worst movies ever made.  I admit that it's visually stunning, but that's not enough to sustain a film.  It's like watching a mural dry. This is the first movie during which I actually glanced at my watch.  Cardboard characters, pointless action sequences, and droll music.  Down there with The Power Rangers Movie, Pokemon: The Movie, Santa Claus Conquers the Martians, etc."
"Well I for one am a big fan of the original 3 films, my favourite being The Empire Strikes Back, but this film was to put it simply ghastly to watch. It's not as if it's the worst film ever made or anything it's just that it lacked all the things needed to make it a good film or even a slightly worthwhile film. The cast included some good actors but their lines were all really dull. The action scenes like the pod race were totally predictable and offered nothing that hasn't been done before. There was no attempt to be original and this sequence along with other parts of the film was like a simple comic book story using way too expensive special effects. The effects themselves weren't even that good, just plain dull. Jar Jar IS as annoying as everyone says he is and the sheer ludicrous disney style of the &quot;I wonder what this button does, Oh look I've killed all the bad guys and saved the day&quot; part at the end defies all sanity. Lucas has lost it. The worst film of the year."
"This is simply an awful movie: the acting is terrible (with the sole exception of Anikan's mother), the characters unsympathetic and unlovable (Jar Jar Biggs, or whatever, may very well be the worst character ever portrayed in a movie), and the story both lame and incoherent. Special effects and unlimited budget clearly overwhelmed the magic of the first 3 films."
"I actually thought it was more like a &quot;Barney Goes to Space&quot; video.  It was targeted way too much towards the very young audience, which makes it easy to watch but just not fulfilling for an adult who believes &quot;cute&quot; belongs in Barney videos, not Sci-Fi movies."
"I should realize that a Star Wars movie is going to be just that. There isn't going to be that much that's new or different in a series that lives off light saber fights, and ship battles.  So what did the movie offer? Great effects mostly.  The acting lacked energy.  The music didn't drive the movie like it did in the first two.  The set design was great in spots, dull in others.  The computer animated creatures looked like muppets - I haven't figured that one out yet.  The best rendered creature was Jar-Jar.  To be honest, I liked and felt sorry for him.  He was treated badly when first encountered - &quot;What's that?&quot; emphasize 'What' - Star Wars apparently doesn't have to be p.c. and treat all life as equal.  A few lines later, Jar Jar takes another shot - &quot;just because it can talk, doesn't mean it's intelligent&quot;.  I guess Qui-Gonn won't be resigning his Jedi commitment anytime soon to join Star Fleet.  Apparently, respect for other life forms isn't in his book.  Having Anakin destroy the droid control ship by accident gave me the same feeling I had when Luke had to have help from Vader to beat the emperor in Return of the Jedi.  I was unfulfilled - not thrilled as I should be.  In short, I felt this movie fell short of the first two, and because it lacked the characters we grew to love in the  first three films, even fell short of ROTJ which I enjoyed least of the original trilogy.  Tim B."
"Yes, I succumbed to the hype and put another $10.00 into George Lucas's pocket.  When will we learn, the bigger the hype and special effects, the smaller the script and plot.  It's clear, George Lucas is all about money and nothing about Star Wars.  He made it for children so they would see it ten times over and buy millions of dollars in toys.  This movie bluntly shuns all fans of the original installments.  The only thing that can save the Star Wars saga now is to get Lucas out and inject some new blood into this once great series."
"After sitting through three Star Wars movies already, I guess it shouldn't surprise me that this one also put me to sleep. It is unbelievable that so many people actually think that these movies are interesting. Anyone who studies film or even cares to try can tell that all 4 of these films are poorly acted, poorly written, and mainstream. Also, there is nothing special about the special effects. I've seen better at a fireworks show. I've never seen worse screenplay in my life. Unfortunetly, too many people have been sucked into &quot; the force&quot; and therefore have forgotten that there are other movies. For all of you out there reading this that don't like Star Wars, I commend you for not getting sucked in. For all of you out there that do, please GET A LIFE."
"Whatever critics say of this film, it make no difference. People will go and see it. But they will think twice about seeing the sequal. Because this film is poor.  At the end of the day the effects are superb, the story line and plot pathetic. Thats all i can say."
"Lucas has spent 20 years perfecting the technology and forgotten that the film needed a script.  The &quot;characters&quot; are slapped together from the offcuts of 40s melodrama. Jah Jah Binks is pathetic, a sorry version of a comedy negro in the Butterfly McQueen tradition. The heroes are given wild costumes, when they should be given thoughtful lines. This film is all look and no substance. Don't waste your time with it."
"in my youth, i had been a huge star wars fan - i collected the action figures, and all the other paraphernalia. thus, when the prequel was announced, i figured it'd be something interesting to check out. unfortunately, this was not the case, as the movie has barely a synopsis, and the acting is appalling. i've seen many a bad movie but this one rules the bottom ten big time. what's even worse, this movie contains racist stereotypes: jar jar binks is the classical `yessuh, massa' no-brains-negro-character (he even was synchronized by an african-american), while matto (matto? see, i even forgot the name) alludes to the alleged jewish mentality to exploit others in order to earn money - by any means necessary. if you're an ordinary spectator, and not a fan of the series, you won't even understand what's so special about the character anakin skywalker. lucas treats the people who go watch the flick `as fans, not as an audience' (quote: the guardian, fri jul 16), and that marks him as a perfect a**hole. not to mention the blasphemic jesus-bull***t that anakin skywalker doesn't have a father but has been given birth by his mother due to divine causes - give me a break. however, i'm realistic enough to foresee that the economical success of this movie is out of question. may the pestilence be with you."
"I went off to see this film last night with a very neutral view of what to expect. I was sadly disappointed. It was terrible. I went with 3 other Star Wars fans. Not obsessives, just people who love the original for what it is.  This time though, the list of faults is long.  The plot was very like episode 4, which is fine, but it was all about this poxy little planet and a trade war. Oooohh. How exciting. The truth was, I just didn't care whether they all got wiped out or not. Actually, that's not true, if they had tortured Ja Ja to death I could have had something to celebrate.  The script was appalling. At moments I felt like they had picked up a page from Sunset beach by mistake. I suppose after the success of the other script nightmares of Jurassic Park, Deep Impact and several others, I shouldn't expect this to be any different.  As for the menace, what menace? It was all about as menacing as Barbie meets the cabbage patch kids. Darth Maul was just a meat-head Kiss fan, who stared alot.  Yes, the pod race was exciting, and the best bit of the whole film was the Sand people shooting at them and jumping up and down. However, it all looked rather as if it had been designed in order to convert to a games console package with very little adjustment.  All in all a truly unworthy prequel. Don't bother to go and see it, even the effects don't really make you go wow."
"The prequel to the famed Star Wars movies was nothing but disappointing at best. While it is understandable that every story needs a plot, the plot took too much development. The action of the movie culminated too late with too many scenes.  The story of young Anakin Skywalker is nothing grand. It is an alien version of any 1800-era slave in America, fortunate enough to be free of his shackles of solitude. Qui-Gon was too stuck up throughout the film, be it towards Yoda or Anakin. Obi-Wan Kenobi had the edge of playful, helpful youth attached and was welcome whenever Qui-Gon was on screen.  But then again, any movie you take a nap during is not a good movie at all, and my ten minutes of sleep during the prequel was probably the best part."
"I have five definitive words: Star Wars cheated its fans! What kind of horror is this? If I were a (hard core) fan I would feel cheated to the extreme. The Star Wars fans deserved much more. If this were the first Star Wars it would have failed. Think about it, if this movie didn't have the &quot;Star Wars&quot; title it would be just another inflated failure like the 5th Element. And who is this lizard Jar Jar Binks? Where does a water lizard from another planet (thousands of years ago) get the personality and street lingo of a rasta, black man, living in 70's Harlem? The character is an embarrassment. And here's another thing: Where does a planet that is 100% covered in a city get off having a blue sky? Eight year olds know better than that. Where does the air come from? That planet would die in a matter of hours.  The problem here is that Lucas is relying totally on the willing suspension of disbelief (something I believe in and support in the arts). But he wants to take us back to the kind of suspension that existed in 1977. Sorry, that era is over. One of the major roles of art is to reflect the era and viewers of its time. We now live in a data infested time, wherein most 7 year olds contain more data and factual science than most of the adults of the 70's. The viewers today demand explanation and factual supports for the visuals on the screen (which after about 25 minutes is pure overkill to a degree that is nauseating, and besides, who's impressed with computer animated puppets anymore?).  The film did impress me in one way (but I firmly believe that it was un-intentional on the part of Lucas) and that is how the characters move from world to world at a dizzying pace. This I think is very consistent with the post-modern era of collage and appropriated images of various dimensions of influence (ala cubism). But again, I think I may be projecting here as I think this was one of those happy &quot;un-intentionalities&quot; that occurred as a result of Lucas' vomiting up of imagery that only proves his self-conscious insecurities as a film director: complete visual corruption to cover the deficit of character development and plot.  And what about the fans? The film answers NO QUESTIONS! Darth Vader built C3PO. Wow, hot stuff. And I hope nobody swallowed the pill about the Force being a micro-organism that lives in all things, we knew that tired story 22 years ago. Posing new questions? Not one. I have a question: how many people felt they were being set up as consumers for future Star Wars product? I'd bet very few, as people don't like to think or open their eyes wide enough to see past their own need to be entertained. And this is sad. I don't care for Star Wars one way or the other, but I don't like the dishonest nature of the film. It duped its fans. There is no reason that this film should not have delivered in a big way. There was no lack of money here, so why not hire a writer who can write well (Trade restrictions? Somehow space became very small)--and with some real imagination, not visual masturbation. The entire plot of this film was formulaic and TIRED, SO TIRED. It goes like all the Star Wars plots: conflict, space war, light-sword fight on a multi-tiered set, big celebrating parade at the end--SNOOZE!!! Come on, this is science fiction, let's get on with it. Even the most mediocre X-File dwarfs this film in its imagination and intelligence; and the special effects of the X-Files are far more believable."
"While I try to think of a worse major movie, let's list the five most idiotic aspects of the film:  #5 The Ben-Hur scene  #4 The Spartacus scene  #3 Jar-Jar Binks  #2 Vader is Jesus  #1 Darth Maul is really a bad guy because he has horns"
"I had relatively low expectations for this film--although I thought that by keeping my expectations low, by the time the marvellous soundtrack started to roll, I would be whisked out of my cynicism and into at least a reasonably enjoyable movie experience, somewhat akin to seeing a decent Bond film.  However, rather than casting aside my doubts, I ended up being bored in long stretches, as the bloated, uninteresting plot plodded along.  Only 2 characters approached being developed, and they had to share time with not nearly as good as I expected special effects, pointless comic episodes, and plot misturns. Ultimately, this film succeeds only at maintaining the &quot;Star Wars&quot; feel, and adds nothing positive to the legacy of the original.  The few scenes which were interesting were a nice race scene, which maintained suspense throughout and a well staged fight betweeen the largely wordless and completely undeveloped Death Mall (or whatever his name was) and the two Jedis.  As for the rest of it, Puh-leez!  Lucas had, what, 10+ years to write this? How did Darth Vader become the boy genius, troubled Savior (a virgin birth is implied for little Ani) we see here?  He's so outstanding that he argues to his mom that it is their moral obligation to help the Jedis, and never does anything selfish.  The Jedi stuff was always simpleton philosophy, but Lucas gives us enough additional information here to realize it is spirituality for the stupid and lazy only.  Kudos are due to Liam Nelson for his great presence, and Natalie Portman's fine, minimalist job portraying the Queen."
"For some reason the critics skewered this film (with the notable exception of Roger Ebert) and diehard Star Wars are already lining up for Episode II. The truth about The Phantom Menace lies somewhere in between.  First, I like Star Wars. However, I don't walk around with a double-bladed lightsaber in my hand when I go to the movies. I have seen TPM twice, and as far as I can tell I will probably only see it one more time, on video (hopefully on DVD, if George Lucas ever allows it).  Now the film. I like special effects. Really I do. But since Lucas has publicly stated that TPM has but one (ONE!!) non-digitally retouched scene (look for the grate) one must wonder what the real effect of CGI is. We can now say that CGI can be used to disguise blatant and flagrant racial stereotyping (Watto the Jew, the Japanese Trade Federation), create annoying throwaway characters to sell toys (Jar Jar Binks), and make the movie look really really cool. I mean it looks REALLY REALLY COOL. Lucas really created a brilliant and realizable galaxy.  But unfortunately there isn't much else in this film. Because it's the first chapter of a 6-movie cycle, you got to cut em some slack for a pointless premise. If I want to learn about taxation and trade routes I'll go to school. Let's face it, TPM is a throwaway movie. I think Lucas knew this from the start, otherwise he would have put a lot more thought into the plot, the characters, and the effect of various (ill-advised) explanations for various things in the Star Wars universe, especially the midichlorians.  Midichlorians are stupid. Period. The Force was originally a spiritual concept. It's the Chinese concept of chi. Midichlorians make for a moronic and illogical &quot;scientific&quot; explanation. Plus Anakin Skywalker is a virgin birth, a pointless and unnecessary biblical reference. Also isn't anyone troubled that Jake Lloyd is 10 years old and Natalie Portman is 17 and she's gonna bear his children?? Someone please tell George Lucas he's pushing the bounds of credulity here. Oh yeah, and Darth Maul has exactly 2 lines. How sad.  The major thing about the film is that it sets up Senator Palpatine's rise to Supreme Chancellor. It sets up the rest of the Star Wars films. Other than that, I hope I never hear of the planet Naboo again or see another Gungan in Episodes II and III. I give this film a good rating because I can forgive it for such lapses only because I expect never to see them again. The film has nice special effects, and Ewan McGregor, Samuel L. Jackson, Natalie Portman are all good actors. Note that all 3 don't actually do much of anything in this film, with the exception of Portman who confusingly alternates between being Padme and Queen Padme. That's right, Lucas is saving them for Episode II.  Rating system: 1 to 10  Rating for TPM: 7/10"
"Critics wanted more than anything to love this movie.  As did many die hard fans who simply couldn't forgive storytelling that is not on par with it's predecessors.  THIS IS NOT AN ISSUE of critics being closed minded and braindead!  If some dogmatic viewers simply open their eyes, they'd see it's not just the critics.   As for the people who loved this movie, well... some people liked the Fifth Element, so I guess its possible to love this.  One problem for me is the screenplay of Episode one gets bogged down in minor details, and doesn't move from scene to scene with effective pacing.  I don't think its boring, but I will say, it's less exciting, and captivating than it should be.  Too many of the scenes are about small details that don't really have to be there, i.e. so many of the chase scenes against the droids, and the land battle with the Gungans.  That to me was not exciting. The action is more routine here, and doesn't have the element of surprise like the others.  Things get shot, things shoot back, things blows up, things shoot, etc.  It gets very monotonous.   I did very much like the scenes on Tatooine, however.  I think it did capture my imagination, with the exception of that amazingly overrated pod race sequence, complete with obviously CGI characters, and a Pod racer that kills the entire scene for me.  This isn't a bad movie, it's just a disappointment.  This feels more like a 90's movie.  Which place their emphasis on routine action, and effects, and less on character, and interesting backstory.  Watching resent action movies, I always thought to myself, where's the magic that I used to see in movies starting with Star Wars in '77 and pretty much ending with Back to the Future in 85. It appears, that Lucas has fallen to the same mistakes as the so called enemy &quot;the big studios&quot; likewise. Nothing against George. He is a wonderful guy. A smart guy, and I think it's too bad that so many disappointed fans have been SO grating on him personally. If I was let down by his movie, and even the next installments, the man still has a heart of gold, and once made pictures that defined the magic of cinema to me. His filmmaking here seems to lack passion, hopefully, he'll get that back with avengeance.  Overall, what I think of this movie?  There are moments, and enough of them, for me to say, heck, it's pretty good.  But I can't help thinking what this could've been."
"Being a 27-year-old whose first impressions of great, exciting filmmaking were largely shaped by the first trilogy, I can honestly (and sadly) say &quot;The Phantom Menace&quot; does not fit among them.  I could spend hours dissecting the individually poor decisions made in the scripting and directing of this film (from the very first confusing, hastily edited &quot;trade negotiation&quot; scene all the way to the accidental heroism of Anakin and Jar Jar), but the only thing that seems to matter now is that I never felt that I was involved in the action or emotionally invested in any of the characters.  And isn't that why we go to see movies -- to be gripped by a story about people we can identify with?  Now I know that many people did enjoy this film, and I'm not  going to deny that, or try to prove that these feelings are somehow less legitimate than mine.  But I hope that people understand that glossy CG effects do not make up for sloppiness in writing and directing.  Even the best &quot;kid's movies&quot;, such as Babe, Toy Story, Antz and The Little Mermaid can appeal to adults, but this film was aimed directly at children, to the exclusion of a thinking, mature audience, and one, coincidentally, who has been waiting 16 years for this film.  I can only pray that Lucas -- who has stated that he made this movie for his own children -- will realize the error of his ways, and will concentrate on thoughtful story, dialogue, editing and acting in the next two Episodes."
"Why I Hated The Phantom Menace (In No particular Order)  1. Stifling CGI-JUB JUB SKINK sucking the life out of every scene. I can't say it better than the Village Voice: &quot;Yoda puts in a cameo, but the film's designated alien is Jar Jar Binks, a rabbit-eared ambulatory lizard whose pidgin English degenerates from pseudo-Caribbean patois to Teletubby gurgle.&quot; I should have known this was coming during Lucas' hyper-electro interview on Sixty Minutes when he admitted his love of CGI over anything else a film might do. 2. JUB JUB owing Liam Neeson a life debt? That happens in at least two episodes of Andy Griffith, one episode of the Brady Bunch, and one episode of Gilligan's Island. We've already learned that JUB JUB is inept, a pathetic stepinfetchit (see 19th century views of blacks as sub-human)and the two Jedis will get safely through the planet core in spite of him, but hey, Lucas would lose the center of his CGI canvas if poor JUB JUB is left behind. 3. At least two other ethnic stereotypes besides JUB JUB-the Chow Yun Fat fish face bad guys and the Hook-Nosed Merchant of Tattoine. He doesn't ask for a pound of flesh but inserts a computer-chip into poor Darth Boy. And let's not forget the faux-orientalism of everything else about the film. 4. Why is Naboo's core water instead of molten lava? 5. More amorphous fish things that serve no palpable function except to set up a joke by Liam Neeson. 6. Oskar Schindler with a light saber. Yes, some cultural indicators can't be avoided. 7. An idiotic director enchanted with his own sense that audience appeal (see pre-teens) means potty humor: &quot;Deep doo-doo&quot; and a fart joke. 8. The visual nonsequitur, slipping from landscape to landscape without the slightest sense of purpose for plot, visual connotation, or even metahistory--what Lucas and his legions of droids think he does best. 9. The sheer pointless and life-sucking nature of every landscape. What was the representational point of the New York City planet? The Fifth Element and Heavy Metal have already done it and done it better, because it made use of the city. Here it is just CGI and self-love (or Academy Award love). 10. The de-mythologizing of the simplest of mythologies-Darth Vader as cute and vacuous though mechanically and transcendentally adept youngster. Was I supposed to laugh when the boy said someday he was going to get off that stinkin' planet. And, if he is, genetically, the bad seed, what is his son. And that reminds me. . . 11. Am I supposed to be enchanted or amused with Natalie's Portman's knowing looks that she will, one day, sire Luke and baby sister? Could a child have gotten that? Is a mature adult not supposed to be just embarrassed? And that reminds me of. . . 12. That cute little remark by the Emperor at the end--we'll be keeping our eyes on you young Skywalker. Okay. We get your point. We got your point with all his whisperings in the princess's ear. 13. The Machiavel/Clinton character who gets a vote of no confidence and is swimming in corruption. Yawn. 14. Proto-Christianity. Need I say more? I guess if you have to get religion somewhere the techno-cathedral is as good as any. Darth Vader is Jesus? 15. A chase scene--the Pod Race--designed solely for video game production. Or is it a lame tribute to Ben Hur? Or is it a lame tribute to John Ford?  16. Primitive FishPeople Battle vs. Mechanicals--Primitive EwokPeople vs. Mechanicals 17. I have to shut something down or blow something up to get those darned shields down or shut off those darned go-bots or neutralized that darned spacestation moon thing. 18. Yet another celebration scene. 19. The overall childishness of its eagerness to please both adults and children. 20. Not a scurrilous character in the entire movie. 21. If this movie doesn't explain what a Jedi is, then which one will? 22. Pointless cameos--Jabba (with Jabba the Wife in tow I noticed), Jawas, and Sand Raiders. I liked the Sand raider joke the first time. 23. Another Bantha Fodder insult. 24. Completely silly use of Samuel L. Jackson. Again, who wasn't waiting for him to pop a cap in someone? 25. Consequence free violence and mayhem. We're told people are suffering but what does that mean? 26. Just an all around dull piece of filmmaking."
"I love Star Wars. Don't get me wrong. I am a fan.  I know the original films very well. The Phantom Menace is an insult to their memory and more insultingly to mine as well. The Star War films are part of my childhood but they were never childish, this is something that cannot be said of The Phantom Menace. It is a cliched downgraded mix of the plot of A New Hope with a few elements of Return of the Jedi thrown in (thing annoying supposedly amusing aliens far removed from the menace of the Mos Eisly Cantina &quot;I'll be careful&quot;, &quot;You'll be dead&quot; repartee). When I stop feeling sorry for nmyself and other educated fans out there I will feel sorry for the kiddies who although they may like this film now will equate it with the merging masses of action films they have seen in their youth, they will not carry a distict Star Wars memory with them into adulthood like so many of us did with the first trio of movies."
"I just saw The Phantom Menace, and I'm gonna have to go with the flow: this movie wasn't so good..  It had potential, but blew it with lines such as &quot;Yahoo!&quot; and... &quot;Yahoo!&quot;  When this movie comes out on tape I think I'll re-record it, but with all of Anakin and Jar-Jar's lines Muted out, that just might change my mind about the movie.  Now anyhow, coming to my point: This movie sucked, What's the big surprise??  Didn't you people see the other Star Wars??  I know, I had &quot;fond&quot; memories of them, too, but when I actually went back and WATCHED the old Star Wars movies, they weren't so great either.  The acting was just as bad in the old SW movies as in the new one.  The only thing I really liked about Episodes 4,5, &amp; 6 was Harrison Ford.  Now, I would've said the same for Liam Neeson, but they already killed him off.  Who's left to support the next two Star Wars movies?? Now, I'll admit Empire Strikes Back was a good movie, but it was a &quot;mid-way&quot; movie, with no real beginning or end.  And the two supporting links (A New Hope and Return of the Jedi) were weak. And one additional question for you to ponder:  How did George Lucas manage to make Yoda look even faker than in the original movies and how did he manage to create a race (Jar-jar &amp; co) MORE annoying than the Ewoks:?? Now in conclusion, I'm not in any way saying &quot;Don't see this movie&quot;, but when you see it, let your opinions be heard, and maybe George Lucas will hire REAL writers for the next movies.."
"This movie horribly destroyed any dignity left in the Star Wars series. From the absolutely flat dramatics, to the uneven performances, to the badly edited action scenes, this movie reeks of laziness.  I admit, there are a couple exciting sequences, some eye-popping visuals, and the light saber battles were well-choreographed, but on the whole the movie was dull and turgid.  The pacing was horrible, too fast to absorb at first and then when they get to Tatooine, it virtually slows to a halt.  Absolutely zero character development too, and Anakin was far too young to be believable. Good for kids and the idiotic masses plebes who enjoy cheap thrills.  The video game &quot;Jedi Knight&quot; had cutscenes that seemed closer to authentic Star Wars adventure than this abysmal waste of time.  Try to resist the temptation, don't watch this film!  Show modern day filmmakers that they can't continue shelling out this garbage to the people of this country."
"&quot;Hey, let's make a movie to sell some toys!&quot;. That's the commitment. How dare George Lucas to say this movie is a relief of this cynical age... Some people said that the movie was made to amuse kids, not critics. I say those kids are not stupid anymore. I don't care about the &quot;timeless saga&quot;: this movie is a yawning lapse of time. I know George Lucas -and all the industry behind him- doesn't care about what I'm writing here. He just wants more money to buy more machines to do CG animation for Steven Spielberg and the rest of clan. The script is redundant and pretentious -uuh! Anakin is like Jesus Christ-; the performances are stiff as an old table -just the Queen shows some acting wood-; the CGFX are nice due to a well-inspired art direction... Well, George Lucas destroyed in minutes whatever he had created all these years. Please, open your eyes and be sincere... Don't let the marketing brainwashes you."
"I couldn't wait to see this movie, I was salivating over the commercials and trailers, I was giddy as I sat in my seat waiting for it to begin and then it did and I couldn't believe what I was seeing... it was HORRIBLE!!! This has got to be the worst movie I've seen at the theater in years. What's with all of these Star Wars marks? They all write things like &quot;It's got flaws but so what&quot; and &quot;It's not meant to be great cinema&quot; or &quot;It was great except for all the stupid parts!&quot; Jar Jar Binks was the worst character in any movie ever! The 'bad guy' trade federation guys had cheesy Chinese accents! What good is dialogue if you can't understand two words? Those CGI scenes were atrocious. I can watch the old Star Wars movies all day but I will never sit through this turkey again, it stinks no matter what you Star Wars freaks say."
"All that I could say after watching this film was &quot;that was awful&quot;. It was everything that I have come to despise in Disney films. It was a cutsey, sappy, plotless homage to the power of a  a bunch of mindless, unimaginative teenagers weilding Silicon Graphics workstations. Put Jurassic Park, Starship Troopers, and the Little Mermaid in a blender and the Phantom Menace will pour out. Don't forget to spin it up well, all of the plot and character development should end up splattered on the wall. This movie was made to sell toys to seven year olds. I have to say that I rank the original three movies as some of the best that I have seen and the Phantom Menace (aptly named as a menace) was a major, major let down. I was prepared to be annoyed at the computer graphics, I was prepared for some cutsey nonsense, but this was worse, far, far, worse than I ever could have possibly imagined. George you've betrayed us all and gone to the dark side."
"I remember a day when Jedis, dark and light, didn't have to use microscopes to determine who was strong with the Force and those who weren't.  In one fell swoop, Lucas's Episode One has extracted the great mystical aspects of The Force from the Star Wars Universe by introducing the concept of &quot;mitocloridians&quot; (sp?) When young Anakin's mitocloridian count is found to be off the charts, Liam Neeson's character tells us that mitocloridians are living organisms that live inside of the cells of every living thing. But what happened to the Force being an energy field that surrounds us and binds us?  And didn't Yoda once say &quot;Luminous beings are we, not this crude matter?&quot;  If indeed it's microbes that comprise the Force, then how did those microbes guide Luke's proton torpedos into the exhaust port?  How did those microbes enable Luke to move non-living rocks?  Is there a Dark Side of the microbes?  The Force was once intangible, mystical, all-unifying. It was whatever you brought into the theater with you.  That was a good part of why Star Wars had so much mythical appeal.  It was universal.  Timeless. And now The Force has a scientific explanation.  Special Edition pulled Han Solo's teeth when Greedo shot first, and neutered Luke by making him scream (instead of being decidedly silent in the original release) when he lept into the Cloud City chasm to avoid Vader.  But Lucas has taken his departure from storytelling one step further.  By making it definable by science, he's killed The Force.  He's disemboweled the very fabric that wonderful make-believe universe is made of.  You're right.  It was &quot;just a movie,&quot;  but aside from merely entertaining me, the trilogy of &quot;movies&quot; that came before it inspired me to become a writer and a filmmaker.  They were my barometer and my foundation; my constant reminder that wonderful, epic stories can be told well if their heroes were believable and real.  The Phantom Menace no heroes that came close to those from previous three installments.  When a movie series touches the lives of so many people on so large a scale, it becomes a legend...a myth.  The movies might belong to the moviemaker, but the myth belongs to the people.  Therefore I am disenfranchised from the Star Wars myth, from here and ever after.  The only thing I'm taking some sort of perverse delight in is the fact that the unstoppable genius of Lucas has come to its zenith.  And as a filmmaker, knowing I could've written a better Phantom Menace while strapped to a moving dump truck makes me very, very excited.  May the Microbes Be With You,  Brian O'Malley"
"Before I begin I must say I love the star wars saga, its just amazing but....I really don&#x27;t know why after all this time George Lucas has had he aloud episode 1 to only be converted to 3D with no added extras. It deserved an update with new added extras just for 3D. The technology wasn&#x27;t used very well for this film I really do hope he has some ideas up his sleeve for the rest of the saga. Surely he must have some clippings somewhere or he could even open up to other people to design things for the 3D versions.  I expected the text at the beginning to jump out the screen but they never, I expected lasers coming at me and got nothing.  Must try harder Mr Lucas, us fans are total fans and deserve the best."
"Growing up Star Wars was my life. Empire Strikes back was also very good in the day, though overrated by its cult following. Then came return of the Jedi, a bad movie, but at least it brought closure to the saga. A generation later we got the prequels, and the little kid in me got excited. Lucas was coming back to Star Wars. Man I wish he hadn&#39;t, as these new installments just didn&#39;t have it. Lucas has directed, produced and/or created some great films: Star Wars, Raiders of the Lost Ark, Empire Strikes Back, but he has also produced some real lemons: Howard the Duck, Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom. Unfortunately, The Phantom Menace fits comfortably in this later category. Further it opened the door for all kinds of ridicules alterations in the original Star Wars and its sequels. What a shame to watch a man of Lucas&#39;s talent lose it."
"Star Wars fans often fall into two categories (although we are all losers and geeks)(i) The purists who will probably never be with anything that lucas makes unless it fits their vision of what star wars is in the first three films. These individuals also tend to criticize everything to the outmost detail and tend to forget that these are ONLY MOVIES!(ii) Lucas Geeks who worship the man and will give all his movies 10 star ratings, even if the movie was a lump of crap sitting there stinking it up attracting flies for 2 hours (and let me tell you this movie is not far off!). There is a third segment of us, that while being die-hard fans of the first three movies still are willing to give the second trilogy a chance, but are critical of what we see as mediocre attempts to relive a great trilogy.  I consider myself part of number 3, which you will see in my reviews of all the Star Wars movies. I have Sith 7 stars, this 1 and will give clones 4 when my reviews are finished on this trilogy. Phantom Menace is half C Span and half kiddy movie. I have found it unwatchable and can't get through it a second time. Jake Lloyd can't act and it would have added to the plot to make Anakin 5-10 years older. I do not wish to insult those who like the movies, however, i do not see how you can enjoy them unless you are under the age of 11.  The movie's plot is difficult to figure out. It is over some sort of blockade by the trade federation over the planet Naboo. If they have a problem why don't they just slap some tariffs on Naboo and let it be. Anyhow, there are the usual chases and star wars effects, none of which seem to work. The underwater chase especially is very boring. The pod race is a little better.  Jar Jar, is some kind of drunken retarded sports' mascot. And Darth Maul is pathetic, he has all the elements of a bad guy on the surface, but is on screen for about 10 minutes and has little to no dialogue. Even the Emperor's &quot;Wipe them all out&quot; line is laughable considering he is using a bunch of second rate droids to do so and doing it over a trade dispute. In the end Anakin blows up the lead ship up, almost through dumb luck, there is some sort of mental celebration, Qui Gon dies and we are set up with Obi Won training Anakin in the next movie. Really, this movie could have been done in an hour.  As a quick note it happened to be on TV the night I wrote this, I caught bits and pieces to revive my memory and yes it is as bad if not worse than I remembered."
"Like many others who thrilled to the original star wars films, I sat in the theatre at the beginning of Phantom Menace, my heart beating in excited anticipation as the familiar music filled my ears.... and then... and then... Jar Jar bloody Binks...  What a bunch of crud! Darth Maul looks like a clown gone wrong. Jar Jar Binks is a moron. The pod race is exciting but out of place. Queen Amidala takes herself far too seriously. The spaceships don't look enough like the original star wars ships to hold my interest...  To be fair, kids will probably like this one. But kids like anything that goes pop whistle bang. This was over hyped and I felt cheated watching this disneyfied version of star wars meets the teletubbies.  Do yourself a favour. If you loved the original star wars films - you will HATE this one. Don't bother! It puts a bad taste in your mouth, and now I can't even watch the originals without thinking of that stupid Jar Jar Binks and his floppy ears and clumsy gait. Bah Humbug."
"I know and agreed that Stars Wars is a movie of its time and is one of the best fiction stories around. Stars Wars took us to another place or generation we didn't even know existed. But don't you think each new episode is getting kind of dull now. I must say Stars Wars is a great story, truly an &quot;A+&quot;, but as the &quot;series&quot; continue, I'm wondering when it will end, but happy to know I will be watching the two upcoming episodes because Hayden Christensen is in it. He's my favorite actor."
"Phantom: the story is vanishingly thin.  Menace: five more films are planned.  Those who love this movie loved it before they entered the theatre. Is there any chance that the uncommitted will be won over?  A friend of mine who liked this movie justified his opinion thusly: &quot;Star Wars is all about dumb fun&quot;.  I never really saw it that way. It's true that Star Wars, front and center, is synonymous with ground-breaking special effects and white-knuckle adventure. However, the implausible thrills were always tempered with a higher sense of purpose, allegory, dare I say &quot;intellect&quot;? Not exactly Woody-Allen-cerebral; never in your face, but always pervasive. You know what I'm talking about.  With the present episode, the higher level has been stripped away, and the no-brainer elements are turned to eleven. If you are a moviegoer who demands theatrical devices such as plot and character development, you are likely to cringe your way through this movie. Two hours of tooth grinding and slapping yourself on the forehead may necessitate dental care and a trip to the neurologist. If, however, you have not yet reached puberty, or if &quot;dumb fun&quot; is your criteria for the Star Wars series, then put the grey matter in neutral and enjoy.  For better or worse, this is what The Phantom Menace has to offer:  1. FX, FX, and more FX... a computer generated graphic in every  frame. If the film has a salient strength, it is the exciting race and battle sequences courtesy of digital technology. Unfortunately, too much of the movie seems contrived as an excuse for the inclusion of special effects &quot;wizardry&quot;. Also, in the &quot;everything is possible&quot; world of computer visuals, there is little need of ingenuity (required in the earlier movies). There is LOTS of grandiose, intricate, but ultimately sterile digital scenery. No one will ever scratch their head saying &quot;now, how did they do that&quot;? A programmer was paid to make it happen. Finally, while digital characters replace the rubber-mask technology of yesteryear, there is the uneasy feeling that in ten years' time the digital &quot;Watto&quot; will be no more convincing than the rubber-masked &quot;Greedo&quot;.  2. Historical context for future episodes. But, ouch! Maybe it was better not to know? Attempts to lay political groundwork for the later episodes are weak, introduction of key players from later episodes weaker still. Less justifiable is the use of story elements that are inconsistent with the later episodes, such as a biological basis for The Force. I will concede that Lucas is a genius if he can tie up numerous inconsistencies introduced in this episode which do not hold true for the later episodes. Meanwhile, I'm not holding my breath.  3. The story (?) is meandering at best, and at worst an excuse for stringing together a series of special effects scenes. It is hard to see the story as anything other than an afterthought, devised in the editing room after all of the scenes have been shot and/or programmed. Enjoyable if you are enthralled by the thwarting of a droid army takeover of a backward planet ruled by an overdressed child-queen, all thinly veiled as an embargo. &quot;Depth&quot; is &quot;achieved&quot; through frequent superficial religious references. Don't ask why. This is &quot;dumb fun&quot;, remember?  4. Characters old and new. The aforementioned emphasis on special effects leaves little time for character development. Yes, you will love Ben Kenobi in Star Wars- you may cry over his fate in that movie, but there is scant opportunity to love him at present. Likewise, you may fear his satanic visage, but given his paucity of screen time you'll never get to know the real Darth Maul. Who knows, maybe he's a sweetheart deep down (just like the more famous Darth)? Also, the silly computer generated characters (one in particular) will almost certainly irritate any viewer with a sense of discernment. On the other hand, said character finally introduces much-needed flatulence humor to the franchise. Isn't it about time?  I can't recommend this movie. It is a one-trick-pony, where special effects are the be-all and end-all. Other aspects of theatrical storytelling are addressed grudgingly or ignored completely. The story rings false, and major players are either reduced to cameos (Samuel Jackson), undeveloped (Darth) or grating (you know who). Sorry George, I was willing to meet you half way, but you just couldn't put down the mouse. (Or the marketing textbook...)"
"Some one must have paid George Lucas A LOT of money to make this movie, and it shows.  &quot;The Phantom Menace&quot; is to Star Wars as what &quot;Alien Resurrection&quot; was to the Alien series.  They both ruined great series by big dumb plots and stupid characters. First of all, the movie hardly resembles Star Wars.  It seems to have better technology in the movie than the first 3, and there is a huge overabundance of special-effects.  In the first one there were alien characters, but this, like every other character is an alien, or looks like one.  It is sick.  The movie is so dependent on special effects Lucas paid no attention to the script. The script sucks.  I didn't give a damn when any weird-named character died because the characters were so underdeveloped.  I did not care about Qui-Gonn, Jar Jar, Obi-Wan, Queen Amidalia, Anakin(boy, did Jake Lloyd suck). The movie was marketed to death.  George Lucas sold out, and I bet you he does it in Episode II.  I am not anticipating Episode II after having seen Episode I."
"The first STAR WARS was maybe the best science-fiction/adventure movie ever done. EMPIRE STRIKES BACK and RETURN OF THE JEDI were pretty O.K. as sequels go. But! PHANTOM MENACE was the worst movie of the year!!! No creativity!: only rehashed ideas from the other films of the series... No magic!: who cared about the characters? JarJar Binx anyone? Anakin Skywalker? (maybe if they had an ACTOR playing him; Jake Llyod is certainly not destined for the oscar)... No fun! No rhythm! No story! Some good actors, but no good acting... There's not really a beginning, and there's not really an end... And, for sure, there is no point!!!"
"Hey, blindly loyal Star wars fans who have posted your love for this movie here: just what exactly do you see in this movie that will draw you back again and again as the first movie did?  The kid's all-thumbs acting?  The completely undeveloped relationship between Jedi master and apprentice?  The dull, unscary villains?  The human warmth of the scenes in which the kid leaves his mom forever without even a goodbye?  Trying to figure out which one is the queen dressed as her servant and which one is the servant dressed as the queen dressed as the servant (like it matters)?  Watching the best years of Ewan Mcgregor's career be wasted talking bilge about midi-chronthians or whatever they were?  This is shockingly inept filmmaking, illogical even on its own terms-- Jedis blather so much about sensing the force, but Obli-Da can't sense a Dark Lord coming up behind him on a scooter-- and bad at everything we used to go to movies for (and even got a little from Lucas's early movies).  Lucas plainly doesn't know that what made the originals enjoyable was the presence of a character mocking the whole business (Han Solo); now he takes himself as seriously as those dull Star Wars imitations (Krull, The Dark Crystal, etc.) that followed in his wake.  There is nothing in this frantic, pompous kiddie adventure movie to suggest that he will be capable of handling the more serious themes of Annakin's temptation and corruption that are implicit in where the next two films will go-- you might as well ask the director of the Pokemon movie to do Godfather IV.  I look to the hype surrounding the next two movies with nothing but dread."
"As a big Starwars fan i can't help feel disappointed with this installment of the StarWars prequel., It lacks emotion character development and serious acting. Too comical for a Starwars film even if it was intended for kids. Apart from this and Jar Jar, and whats the deal with Boss Nass and his slobbering. Although Visual were stunning. The Saber duels at times were filmed to close. Altogether one Big Opppps!!"
"This is perhaps the only film I've ever voted a 1 out of 10 at IMDb, and the reason for giving it 1 is that there isn't a '0' option.  The effects are overdone and distracting. Lipsync of non-human characters is so poor that it's like watching Sesame Street or some low budget TV sci-fi show.  The sound is LOUD, so loud in fact that it did keep many of our 10pm showing audience awake.  Save your money, skip this turkey."
"The ticket clerk offered me a free toy which I declined. I felt as embarrassed and idiotic as Jar Jar.  I ordered a *small* coffee figuring I would need a boost to get through this; fortunately they gave me a somewhat gigantic one.  I heard a couple of voices far behind me in the large theatre otherwise I was the only one there.  The application of any stars here at all are for the hard working tech folks and the great orchestral players not to mention the long-suffering extras in the grandstand and so on.  Did George Lucas actually write this script all by himself? At least he could have farmed out the comedy to someone, anyone. Shandling? Lewis? Larry David? How much did this film cost? Good Grief...  The only enjoyable element of this film was John Williams&#x27; piece of string writing at the very end of the closing credits.  Awright, I did my *duty* and saw the thing, yaaawwwnnnn......"
"The new series of movies are as if the they are not made by the same person. Actually, in a way, they aren&#39;t. They where made by an aging fart who decided to make a kids movie. If you believe that a grate kids movie will be grate for adults then I&#39;ll tell you that this isn&#39;t one of those. The movie (whole quasi-star wars prequel trilogy) lacks the mysticism of the original series. Thats the main problem. In the original trilogy you had knights, wizards, spiritual power and a princess. In the new series you only have a princess and wannabe knights and wizards with some kind of organism living in them which gives them the force (what????). Where is that Lucas from the 70&#39;s gone? The one that wrote about people with unexplainable powers, a force flowing through them that is in all living things. A concept heavily borrowed from the eastern philosophies which gave the films spiritual and mystical note. If you liked the original trilogy for those reasons then avoid the new films at all costs. They are childish crap."
"I remember when this film came out, I kept putting off seeing it. And putting it off, and off. Then it came out on video, and I finally rented it. I think I was putting it off because I instinctively knew it was going to be awful, and I was right. It is one of the dullest, most atrociously acted films I&#39;ve ever seen. The acting was stodgy and boring, and considering the acting talent involved (Liam Neeson, Ewan McGregor, and Samuel L. Jackson), you&#39;d think Lucas could have done something spectacular with them. Alas, no. Lucas has said numerous times that he detests directing (this was the first film he&#39;s directed in over 20 years since the original Star Wars film), and his contempt for directing shows. It feels like a sonambulistic exercise, intent on putting us to sleep, and it has an overall lackadaisical feel that really irks the viewer. Many who saw this were extremely disappointed because they loved the originals so much (the original 3 are far superior than this tripe). They more than likely felt a sense of obligation and loyalty to see this film and the progressively worse prequels. They grew up with the original Star Wars films, and they went away disappointed and angry at the fact the prequels were inferior in every way to the originals...  Lucas&#39;s dialogue is wretched, his pacing is totally off, and he seems to be killing time here. There&#39;s no real enthusiasm here, in front of the camera or in back of it. Perhaps the actors picked up on the fact that Lucas didn&#39;t give a damn about his own film, so why should they? I sometimes think Lucas purposely made bad prequels so he wouldn&#39;t have to film the final 3 chapters. And why did he decide to make the prequels? If he made the 3 films that were supposed to take place after Return of the Jedi, he would have had no real creative restraints. Who knows why George Lucas does what he does? I haven&#39;t a clue, other than I really disliked this film."
"The voting system doesn&#39;t really go low enough to do this film justice. It is simply dire. The characters are one dimensional, the action is &#39;cartoonlike&#39;, the love interest is totally unconvincing and the comedy relief is completely out of place and childish.  There isn&#39;t really much plot, apart from setting up the basis for episodes 2 and 3. Most of the film is padding and meaningless set-pieces. Even the much famed &#39;race&#39; has been totally over-hyped.  And, worse of all, the baddies are not developed enough for us to to really hate them. In fact, I felt more dislike for the &#39;heroes&#39;.  I realise it just wasn&#39;t possible to create a film with the sort of impact that the original &#39;Star Wars&#39; had but surely, with the money available to them, they could have found a writer who could have delivered a good story and some believable dialogue.  Totally lacking in any charm or magic."
"oh no! i watched this movie in a star wars video session at home, immediately after watching the first (or the last, whatever) movies. i goddamn nearly puked (pardon the language, but it was 6 o'clock in the morning, and my defenses were pretty low). i found the dark saga of force and temptation, of bad against evil, torn apart to do something like...this. some kind of...disneyan thing with no plot at all, nearly no credibility in character (what?? that little runt is gonna be the meanest man of the universe?? COME ON!), and lets not mention that really annoying ugly fella (i deliberatly forgot his name) who was there SO obviously to please the little 'uns...that's why the only person i know who liked the movie is my cousin of eleven years. less box office thinking, mr. lucas, you already have enough money.(but i really fear that the other ones are not going to be better)."
"The Phantom Menace was a huge disappointment.  Lucas went from the original trilogy to this?  The Phantom Menace had great battle scenes between the Jedi and the Sith, but that is all.  What I miss most about the original trilogy is the fact that everything wasn't digitized.  When a creature is digitized, it looks cartoonish.  When it is done the old fashioned way, it looks fake enough but at least it looks as if a creature like that could be sitting there right in front of you, instead of conversing with a character from Roger Rabbit.  Jar Jar Binks was the biggest let down of all - my vote for this movie would be raised at least 3 notches if it weren't for Jar Jar.  Jar Jar is a ridiculous element to have in such an otherwise noble idea.  We don't need slapstick, Mr. Lucas."
"and then came home and watched the first 3 movies. And after a lot of thought I'm going to have to say, and it hurts me so, that this movie has disappointed me. Not because it wasn't a well executed play of computer graphics (I really liked the effects) and intense action, but because that's about all there was to it.  The original movies made it so much easier to get involved with the characters. And while Return of the Jedi had the annoying Ewoks, at least it finished up the tale and fate of Luke and his father.  But The Phantom Menace was just too childish, even for my children ages 7 and 10. Some very unbelievable luck, a largely annoying (dumb) side-kick, some rather disappointing revelations of the once-mystic Force, and some very dry acting left me feeling lost. Why George? For me, it is like losing a friend. I'm going to pretend I didn't see it, and that only the original trilogy was all that has ever existed and that the Force is as Yoda explained in the Empire Strikes Back."
"This movie actually hurt my feelings. One of the greatest trilogies ever to reach the screen, and THIS is how they make the follow-up? The two Jedi knights Qui-Gon Jinn (Liam Neeson) and Obi-Wan Kenobi (Ewan McGregor) come to help out negotiating a truce between the trade alliance and a small planet kingdom. While doing this they encounter a boy who has the possibility to become the greatest Jedi ever.  Oh my god! That's all i thought while watching this mess of a movie. I have had my expectations shot to pieces before, i know what it feels like. But never has it hurt like this. I had waited for so many years for the follow-up to the original Star Wars-trilogy. And what do we get? 133 minutes of wooden actors reading lines that could make grown men cry, and action scenes that look like a video game.  The thing that bothers me most about this movie is that all the feeling for what actually WORKS is gone. The first movies might not have been the pinnacle of cinematic perfection. But they had that feeling that made them such a great experience. It was adventure, drama, emotion and action mixed in a way that was every young man's dream! Here instead we have whiny little kids race-driving, silly aliens and actors that seem to be completely lost. The magic has gone missing! When this is written the third part in the prequel trilogy has not come out yet. The second part was a clear improvement over this one, but unfortunately not enough so. The only positive thing i can think of is that now expectations are so critically low that the third part would really have to hit rock bottom for it to be a disappointment. This is kindly enough rated a 4/10."
"The original Star Wars trilogy was fantastic. This is a mess. So many things were done so wrong that it seems like Lucas played a sick joke on us. I refuse to call this Star Wars. The film is extremely dull, the visuals aren&#x27;t even very good, the dialogue doesn&#x27;t make any sense, there is stereotypes everywhere, the characters are boring, the acting from everyone is terrible, the plot feels like it was made up as they went along, and the force is now a bacteria. It does every last thing wrong. Even the great score isn&#x27;t enough to redeem this abomination. There is no words to describe how bad it is. I would rather set myself on fire than watch this thing destroy such a great franchise. Lucas has stabbed every Star Wars fan in the back with this.  0 stars out of 4"
"Some people say you should stop comparing the Star Wars Prequels to the original trilogy. That it&#x27;s like comparing apples and oranges. Well, not exactly, it&#x27;s more like comparing apples and turds.  The reason for this is that the writing in the prequels is absolutely dreadful. Our characters aren&#x27;t developed over the course of the story. Qui Gon-Jinn is not developed as a character. I&#x27;ll certainly admit that he has character in that he is morally ambiguous. He has no problem trying to scam part dealers, stealing ships from the Gunguns and he has no qualms about fixing bets to his advantage. But he DOES have a problem using his powers to help the Queen to manipulate the Gunguns, even though he already did it ONCE near the beginning of this movie. I&#x27;m not so sure this guy is so much a Jedi anymore as he is retarded.  Ewan Macgregor at best delivers a half-hearted performance that isn&#x27;t even a shadow of a good Alec Guinness impersonation. Like I said though, this may not be all his fault simply for the fact that the characters were not developed, and therefore had no character. The kid   Anakin also wasn&#x27;t much either. George Lucas tried to write him as many different things, including being a slave. Now think about this. How can the kid be a slave, a pilot and a repairman?! That doesn&#x27;t make any sense. Even more, how does a SLAVE get the time, money and parts to build his own droid and a pod-racer?! Therein lies another problem with Phantom Menace. The story makes no damn sense at all. We&#x27;re never given a clear sense of what is at stake, or what the consequences will be of failure. From what I saw on the Queen&#x27;s planet of Naboo, the Trade Federation is merely occupying the planet, and not doing anything else but that.  Since there is nobody really suffering from the Trade Federation&#x27;s occupation of Naboo, you get no hint at all as to why this is such a terrible, terrible thing. Second of all, when the Queen goes(with the Jedi) to the senate on Coruscant, they don&#x27;t believe her allegations that the trade federation have invaded Naboo! Why not have the Jedi testify then?!   Also, Anakin,his mom and countless others are slaves on Tattooine. You&#x27;ve got all these Jedi sitting around on Coruscant but not a single one of them can&#x27;t be bothered to rescue the slaves?! There&#x27;s also something wrong with Anakin constructing C3PO. First, he looks like ANY other old protocol droid, which doesn&#x27;t make sense unless Anakin just took a half finished droid and just finished him. Secondly, how is a protocol droid supposed to help Anakin&#x27;s mom? C3PO said in the original Star Wars &#x22;I am not much more than an interpreter!&#x22;. Then what bloody good is he?! It makes absolutely no sense at all that Anakin would build a useless robot to help his mom! Darth Maul isn&#x27;t developed as a character either, so he and his fight at the end is a total waste too.  Yoda is also wasted as a character. He just sits around and discusses things with the other Jedi. He is known for his wisdom and his witty repartee. We don&#x27;t get to see any of that here. Instead he spouts off ten tons of BS including &#x22;Fear leads to anger, anger leads to hate, hate leads to suffering.&#x22;. Now not discounting the numerous flaws and fallacies with Yoda&#x27;s argument here, you could interchange any one of those verbs with another and it would sound more credible. Hate could lead to fear, Anger could lead to fear, fear could lead to suffering logically since by definition fear is a form of suffering.  The trade federation is a group of spineless nitwits who aren&#x27;t scary, intimidating and act like they have no idea what they are doing. In other words, they aren&#x27;t good characters. I&#x27;d take the Ewoks over these clowns. The wooden spaceships of the Ewoks would be much more scary and imposing.  Also, how does it make sense that the Queen&#x27;s ship managed to escape the Trade federation&#x27;s blockade when there are literally thousands of those ships orbiting the planet?! R2-D2 repairs the shield generator but they never, ever get hit by another laser blast so what was the point of him repairing it? I would have found it much more interesting if the Jedi, the Queen and her security forces used um&#x85; I dunno, a strategy of some kind instead of going into the fray completely defenseless!!! Then of course, Anakin through a bunch of retarded coincidences and accidents manages to destroy the ONLY trade federation ship orbiting Naboo at the end of the movie, effectively making us wonder what happened to all the other Trade federation ships?! Couldn&#x27;t another take over powering the droids? That doesn&#x27;t make sense!!!! If the priority of Darth Sidious was the invasion of Naboo then why did the other ships disappear?! That is retarded! Oh, and while I am on the subject how did they get back to Naboo without the Trade federation even noticing? Anakin destroying the ship, especially by accident is very disrespectful to all the other Naboo pilots that died before him, pilots who were experienced and capable. Anakin doesn&#x27;t have flight experience! He has pod-racing experience! That is NOT the same thing! That&#x27;s like saying I can fly an F-14 because I have 20 years of experience driving a Diesel locomotive! Also, don&#x27;t tell me Anakin was using the force because in the cannon there is no indication whatsoever that somebody can use the force first without at least a tiny bit of training!  If that isn&#x27;t enough for you, then think about this: I didn&#x27;t even touch upon Jar-Jar or... the dreaded M-word!"
"THE PHANTOM MENACE is one of the biggest disappointments in my memory. This is what Shakespeare meant by a tale told by an idiot, full of sound and fury, signifying nothing.  After watching this, I think we should take back all those unkind things we said about PLAN 9 FROM OUTER SPACE.  Way back when, I saw the first STAR WARS at least seven times: that was just at the actual movies, we're not counting video or cable or anything.  It's structure was that of a classic western, but the way it created a whole new universe was bold and original.  And if you saw the first one, you really needn't bother with any of the others.  Everything is pretty well laid out in the original, with the notable exception of the nature of the relationship between some of the characters that comes clear in RETURN OF THE JEDI.  But now comes THE PHANTOM EMPIRE, which was so boring that I went sound asleep in the middle of it: not an easy thing in an auditorium equipped with DTS sound.  Maybe it's a case of my having become cynical in the twenty-some years since seeing the first STAR WARS, but I was amazed that so many fine actors could be hired for this project and then cast adrift.  Did George Lucas even bother to be on the set when the scenes with live actors were filmed, or was he crouched over a monitor watching the special effects?  If there was a director on the set, he was sleeping more soundly than I was.  One performer does stand out for special commendation.  Samuel L. Jackson, bless his heart, manages to say a line to the effect of &quot;Return with the queen to Naboo,&quot; and he says this with a perfectly straight face.  He doesn't giggle or snicker or anything.  Although I'll bet that in the vaults there are hundreds of feet of unusable takes with him giggling, stammering, or just laughing his head off trying to say 'Naboo' with a straight face.  This movie is garbage.  Boycott it, and don't buy any of the millions of products with images of the film on it.  Instead, go to the video store and check out STAR WARS and treat yourself to a movie that dares to be original."
"The most stupid expensive movie in film history. Jar Jar is a shameful creation and spoils the rest of the movie which is pretty bad anyway.  For me and a lot of deceived fans, this saga is now dead and we will not even consider watching any more movies in the Star Wars franchise.  Shame on Lucas. See Peter Jackson for special effects that serve the story and not the opposite, as in this laughable if not cryable movie."
"I avoided seeing this when it was released last year but managed (just)to stay awake whilst watching it on tape last week.As I suspected it was more of the same but worse.The storyline was boring in the extreme,something about trading as I recall,and the Jar Jar Binks character was every bit as bad as others told me he was.I'm sure that the Star Wars geeks out there have a thing about these stupid character names and weave ridiculous fantasies about them even if they only appear for the briefest of screen time(e.g.Boba Fett who was played by a middle aged British actor only previously known for long dead 60s soap operas and soft core 70s sex films assuming he was known at all).If George Lucas announced a character for the next movie with a name like Rollo Willabeedong you can bet that these sad idiots would create websites and fan fiction about him two years before release purely because he was connected to this tiresome fantasy series. I did hope that as THE PHANTOM MENACE was set years before A NEW HOPE that at least the dreaded light sabres may not have been invented and we could at least see fighting with proper swords but no;we had the same uninvolving torch waving as in the other movies wielded by actors and stuntmen who must have been six feet away from each other and how good can a fight in a G rated movie be anyway? Ray Parks made no impact at all in his truncated role and Ewan MacGregor was unremittingly awful.Only Liam Neeson left this debacle with his integrity intact.Please George let there be no more or if there must be then get rid of those bloody awful light sabres!"
"After 16 long years, George Lucas continued his Star Wars saga with this prequel, set roughly 30 years before the original trilogy. When I first saw this movie, I looked forward to learning about the events that led up to the original Star Wars trilogy, how the Old Republic governed itself, how Jedi were selected, trained and initiated, and how the Empire rose to power. But it turned out I learned very little from this latest installment. The characters Obi-Wan Kenobi and his master Qui-Gon Jinn are introduced, but the characters are not developed well. I didn't feel like I got to know either of these characters. Plot elements are hinted at rather than thoroughly explained. They mention the &quot;trials&quot; that a Jedi must go through without explaining what they are, or why Master Qui-Gon is being kept out of the Jedi Council. There is a new villain in this movie, Darth Maul, who I learned even less about. In one of his few lines he mentions a desire for revenge- revenge for what, exactly? Nothing is explained in this movie. Instead we are transported from one place to another as Obi-Wan and Qui-Gon fight off armies of droids with their lightsabers. Good action scenes and great digital graphics, but without good dialog the story is empty of meaning. Good points- the trip through the planet core, the pod race, introduction to the Jedi Council and the Republic Senate, and Darth Maul's two-bladed light saber. Bad points- Jar Jar Binks &amp; the rest of the Gungans, Anakin (sorry, he was way too chipper), plot and dialog. I recommend skipping this chapter of the saga and starting off with Attack of the Clones. 4 out of 10."
"Episode 1 is a good film, but it is by no means the best of the series.  True, this is technically the first of the series (or the fourth), and it does set a good stage for the other films, but this film does have it's flaws.  1- Jar Jar Binks!  What drug was Lucas on when he created that character.  I haven't seen a character (a comic relief one at that) as bad as that since Godzilla in 98.  And 2- It's not as heart warming as the last ones, the other films seemed to at least have a good sense of love in it.   Yet, that doesn't stop writer/director George Lucas form having plenty of fun (including with spectacular visual effects that make up most of the movie) including a terrific Pod Race sequence, great fight scenes, and cool battle action.  But it does prove one thing, that like episode 4, the episode following it (like the dark episiode 5- The Empire Strikes Back) will be dark and good.  Good entertainment anyway."
"&#x22;Star Wars Episode I: The Phantom Menace&#x22; is a worthless pile of garbage. It the letdown of a lifetime, with nearly no redeeming qualities. I&#x27;m almost baffled that none of the actors in this movie have committed suicide yet. I know I probably would if I knew I were responsible for a disaster such as this.  Let&#x27;s list the good things first. The casting of Ewan McGregor as Obi-Wan Kenobi. The score by John Williams. Darth Maul. Gui-Gon&#x27;s line about the ability to speak not making one intelligent. And that&#x27;s about it.  First of all, the characters. Never in this film is there an attempt at developing any of the characters, or make them compelling. They show little to no emotion at all and they only do what they&#x27;re told, or supposed to do. And don&#x27;t even get me started on Jar Jar Jinx. Or is it Binks? Who cares.  The look of this movie isn&#x27;t all that great either. Right now it&#x27;s 2016 and the CGI of this movie is horribly dated. How unfortunate that a movie that came out 39 years ago looks so much better than one that came out 17 years ago. Why did it have to look so colorless and dry? The direction, the camera-work, the editing is impossibly stale and dull. Then there&#x27;s the acting, which is not very impressive either. And the dialogue? The dialogue of this movie is at the same time unmemorable and cringeworthy. Did Lucas not know how people interact in real life or what?  And the pacing, my god the pacing! The movie starts and it spends 30 minutes randomly moving characters from one location to the next. Then the movie completely stops, and for literally 45 minutes we see characters talking and talking. Somewhere in those three quarters we see the pod racing sequence which does look kind of cool, until it drags on for too long. Then 15 minutes of discussions of politics, taxation and trade routes. You know, what we all wanted to see in a Star Wars movie! Finally we have the most complicated ending ever. It spontaneously cuts between four things happening at four different places. The only one of them that&#x27;s remotely interesting is the lightsaber battle and that&#x27;s mostly because of the Duel of the Fates song (which is awesome). Then the credits roll and I&#x27;m left with a feeling that&#x27;s a mix of relief, anger and horror.  Overall, &#x22;The Phantom Menace&#x22; is one of the worst films in cinematic history, not just because of it&#x27;s extremely poor quality in terms of filmmaking, but because of it&#x27;s impact on us as an audience. In the end, a few good things is drowned in the incoherent stream of utter bulls**t. 3/10."
"Born 2 years before this movie was released, I have my perspective on the Phantom Menace. Regardless of arguably being a relatively incoherent film, this is one of my earliest films. Some of my earliest childhood memories surround my viewings on the Phantom Menace on VHS.  As I got older I discovered the original trilogy and came to the realisation that they were simply better films.  And as an 18 year old, the Phantom Menace does not particularly hold up.  The age demographic for the film, for one, is very inconsistent, as the film continuously deteriorates from trade negotiations to comic relief from a certain hated character.  The main problem with the Phantom Menace was George Lucas and the lack of collaboration that surrounded the production of the film. He didn&#x27;t understand his own source material and everything that made the original trilogy so memorable to begin with.  The film is devoid of a protagonist. Anakin is irrelevant and hardly integral to the plot. The two Jedi, who I will acknowledge are portrayed with great performances from Neeson and Mcgregor, have no emotional depth whatsoever.   The narrative is not established, with the opening crawl supposedly serving that purpose. But there is little to no intrigue or investment when the opening crawl conveys the premise of &#x22;Taxation of trade routes to outlying star systems is in dispute&#x22;, leaving general viewers in confusion and no reason to get emotionally involved with the characters.  The planetary invasion on Naboo is an underwhelming premise, and nothing at the end of the film feels accomplished or defined, making this entire instalment unnecessary and irrelevant to the remainder of the trilogy.  Arguably the most controversial aspect of the film, midichlorians, ruin the significance of the force and reduces such an engaging concept to biological science with pointless exposition.   Positive aspects? John Williams composes a phenomenal soundtrack, notably Duel of the Fates. There is more emphasis on practical imagery as opposed to II and III being mostly computer generated, as a result making this film stylistically superior. The performances are good for the most part, and I won&#x27;t criticise Jake Lloyd considering his age and everything he went through after the Phantom Menace. The mythology of the star wars universe is expanded, with more insight on different planets and the political system. I wouldn&#x27;t have a problem with the politics if they weren&#x27;t overly emphasised.   Overall, this movie is basically an unstructured mess."
"Although Jar-Jar and Anakin are incredibly annoying characters I still think this is a great family film and good for any star wars fans (although it nowhere near as good as the originals) overall it is a pretty good movie especially the lightsaber duels but sadly the characters of what could of been an amazing film do grate quite a bit.  the story is interesting but as I said not as good as the original trilogy, even some of the new characters are good but pretty much the only one worth watching is qui-gon jinn.  Another part I liked was the visuals &#x26; sound these were very well made although it can be very goofy at time which a lot of hardcore star wars fans don&#x27;t like a favourite scene of mine was the podrace that was a plus.  overall i think people should try it at least once for the lightsaber duel at the end and the podrace.  5/10"
"After millions of fans spent decades building star wars mythology, Lucas comes back and betrays the legacy with a movie that is simply one of the worst entries in the star wars cannon. Every star wars novel I&#39;ve read had better dialog and a more coherent plot. Comparisons to the original trilogy aren&#39;t even possible, the movies are not in the same genre. Too many people are forgetting that these movies not only had to live up to the quality of the original series, but the hundreds of novels and video game story lines written since, virtually ALL of which are better than the prequels.  I have read many defenses of the prequels now that people have had time to reflect on the entire trilogy, but no defense can explain away the fact that these movies are missing the fundamental elements that make a star wars tale work:  1. Chemistry between the main heroes. Chemistry is very fleeting in the prequels because the characters are made of cardboard. 2. Likable main heroes (Han, Luke, Leia) (HINT:this requires personality) 3. Serious supporting characters who fill out the setting and create suspension of disbelief. Supporting characters in the prequels range from comically awful race-typed aliens, to power-rangers style silly monsters, to out-of-place superstars pretending to be Jedi(Sam Jackson). Rather than build the setting, these goofy elements quickly tear any hint of atmosphere built during the OK action sequences to shreds. 4. Following from #3 - a sense of serious danger. As campy as the original movies might seem during the 100th viewing, the villains in these films had enough gravitas to cause a generation to associate stormtroopers, Darth Vader, the emperor, and the empire with heavy layers of evil. By comparison, the prequels have all the dire portent of a TMNT episode.  I think these are the key elements that were missing. These are the elements that generally separate the good adventure movies (ratings of 8+ out of 10) from the throwaways (ratings from 4-6 out of 10). If the prequels had the elements listed above, they would have been worthy additions to the mythos, scoring around a 9 out of 10 on metacritic and IMDb. The basic storyline in the movies was adequately interesting, if only Lucas had given us interesting characters to experience it with.   Tragically, the acting and writing in the prequels isn&#39;t just cardboard boring, it is actually cringeworthly power-rangers level garbage that frankly makes the movies unwatchable to anyone over the age of 14. The writing is seriously on the same level as the typical Saturday-morning cartoon. I seriously doubt the actors involved with the films can even make themselves watch them.  My advice, if you are interested in delving deeper into the Star Wars universe avoid the prequels until you have read enough good novels to keep you from being turned off. Pick up a copy of Heir to the Empire and wonder why they couldn&#39;t have made it into a movie instead of Lucas&#39;s cartoonization of starwars. The sad thing is it probably never will be now that Lucas has so ruined the film franchise."
"I am as big a Star Wars fan as there is, and I have to say although there are many problems with this movie, the biggest one (and one that sadly followed him to Episode II) was that the non-humans spoke English. Think about it. We accepted characters from Jabba the Hut to Greedo to Chewbacca in the first movies. None of them spoke English. The first two were subtitled and Chewie was just Chewie. The only non-humans to speak English were 3PO (a protocol droid) and Yoda (a 900 year old Jedi master).  And Phantom Menace illustrated why this was important. When you have your aliens speak English (or even worse, English with a &quot;funny&quot; accent) it comes out, at best, cartoon-like and at worst offensive. From the leaders of the Trade Federation to Jar Jar, the English speaking aliens killed this flick.  Then again, dialog has never been Lucas&#39; strong point. How many of his most beloved characters never speak or have only a couple of lines? (Chewie, R2D2, Boba Fett, Darth Maul, Jabba, etc.) Perhaps there were just too many lines, generally. Lucas should stick to his affects and his story lines and let someone else write his dialog. Which he did - in the later films."
"I&#39;m more of a casual &quot;Star Wars&quot; fan, which is probably why I don&#39;t think of Ep I as the train wreck that more hardcore fans see it as. In fact, I think the movie was going to be disappointing to most simply because it was so anticipated; when you stand outside a movie theater for hours, days or even weeks waiting to see a movie, I don&#39;t see how that movie can possibly meet your expectations.  Yes, Jar Jar&#39;s antics get old fast, and it&#39;s hard to accept that this whiny little kid is supposed to be the same character as Darth Vader, but overall this is a fun, watchable film. The action starts almost immediately (and there&#39;s plenty of it); there&#39;s suspense, mystery and treachery all about; and we finally get to see many of the things that were only talked about in the original trilogy. Liam Neeson is particularly enjoyable in his role, and it&#39;s a real shame that they didn&#39;t include his character in the next two films.  What I really thinks hurts the movie is that it&#39;s missing most of the beloved characters from the first trilogy that made up the heart of that series. Combine that with the fact that we already know what&#39;s going to happen in the big picture, and the film loses a lot of the emotional attachment that made the originals so fun to watch. You don&#39;t have as much invested in the characters, so you don&#39;t care that much if they live or die (the same factor that makes a lot of slasher films so lame).  And, like all the &quot;Star Wars&quot; movies, there&#39;s a big loss in the translation from big screen to small screen. I remember being on the edge of my seat during the pod race scene when I saw this in the theater, but on a TV screen it&#39;s just not as exciting. The same goes for the climactic space battle. These movies were meant to be seen in theaters, and watching them at home makes their flaws a lot more noticeable.  In conclusion, I feel that watching &quot;Phantom Menace&quot; is like going to a football game where you don&#39;t follow either of the teams. It&#39;s still fun to watch the show, but it&#39;s not the experience that watching your favorite team is."
"The spoiler for my _comment_ is that you probably won&#39;t read anything in it you&#39;ve not read in the myriad of other comments on this film ...  ... with the possible exception that I for one don&#39;t think the other installments of _Star Wars_, e.g. the 70s-80s ones, were all that. If that offends you beyond belief, you should probably stop reading right now.  In 1977 I was 16 years old and had been reading science fiction for years. I&#39;d heard about _Star Wars_ and had read all the criticisms coming from the &quot;real science fiction&quot; camp (simplistic plot/philosophy, spectacular but physically impossible -- that is, impossible via the laws of physics -- effects, etc etc etc), so I knew what to expect. I went, turned off my brain and had fun.  HOWEVER. Even at that time I did not think I was seeing something &quot;great.&quot; A lot of people use the word &quot;epic&quot; to describe these movies and I think that is stretching it - I use the word &quot;epic&quot; to refer to things that have considerably more, well, _gravitas_ than these large, expensive, moving comic books (don&#39;t get me wrong, I love comic books).  And so, with that out of the way ... I guess my confusion is not so much about what Lucas has &quot;lost&quot; or &quot;forgotten&quot; as about what he ever had to begin with. For example, I agree that Jar Jar is intensely annoying, but I found C3PO annoying, too, in a kind of &quot;less nefarious Dr. Smith&quot; kind of way.  I&#39;d say the big problem with this film is that it is completely unfocused: unfocused story, unfocused acting (good lord, the acting), unfocused visuals): it just keeps throwing brightly colored, ill-thought-out stuff at you and expecting _that alone_ to keep you entertained. Several fine actors are completely and utterly wasted. Most &quot;epics&quot; have at least one character you can follow and care about - do we really care about any of these people? My own answer is no, and the reason I do not care is that I have no idea what makes any of them tick, what drives any of them. It isn&#39;t really the actors&#39; faults, because they are given nothing memorable to do (apart from the brightly colored crap with light sabers and so on) and very little memorable to say. Did any of what transpired in this film come as a surprise? as a revelation of character? This is the complete triumph of spectacle (in an Aristotelean sense) over any other of the six dramatic elements: no plot, no character, no diction, no thought, no music.  I&#39;m being somewhat hyperbolic there. Of course there is a plot. A plot ... exists. It&#39;s just that here -- as with the other items in that list -- we don&#39;t care about it, because it is not made to be intrinsically interesting. The point here is simply the brightly colored crap. Again and again and again and again and again. It is supposed to entertain the kids and keep them quiet, not make them ask questions, for gosh sake."
"if you love the &#39;star wars&#39; universe, or you&#39;re into the special effects and laser light shows...then look no further and dive right in. those looking for good acting, dialog, a meaningful story........who the heck wrote this script anyway? i live in &quot;bizarro world&quot; ,where tons and tons of people love this calculated crap. owes ALL its fame and fortune to the original trilogy (which is showing its age also). not the worst ever, just a stale trifle with bombastic puffery........lets see, ten lines, this is the frigging last time. when did IMDb get so.......cubicle?k , then,how about some more crap, IMDb? sheesh, when you&#39;re done you&#39;re done........"
"I went to see this film during it&#39;s first release once the hype died down. I left out of the theatre feeling a bit disappointed. Trade embargoes are not interesting. Now that they are replaying on cable, I gave them another chance. One thing I enjoyed about episodes 4,5 and 6, was the sense of the unknown in learning these new languages as they came up. Hearing Greedo, listening to Jabba and Bib Fortuna as they talked in these exotic tongues which draw you in. In episode 1, I felt at times as if I was watching an exploitation film on bad ethnic stereotypes. I won&#39;t list specific characters because I don&#39;t have to, you know who the Asian sounding characters are. The characters that have Arabic, Latino, and African American stereotypes. I&#39;m not even black and I get offended watching this Jar Jar character say everything but &quot;he don&#39;t know nothing bout birthin no babies.&quot; My last point and question is, &quot;Where was Haley Joel Osment when they were casting for Anakin?"
"40 years before the original Star Wars, the decaying Old Republic governs the Galaxy, under the watchful eye of the Jedi Knights. A shadowy figure uses the invasion of an innocent planet to propel himself into a position of power. As two Jedi - Obi-Wan Kenobi (McGregor) and Qui-Gon Jin (Liam Neeson) - step in to save the planet&#x27;s queen, Padme (Natalie Portman), they flee and encounter a young prodigy along the way. A young slave boy named Anakin Skywalker...  Episode I took the planet by storm in 1999. A worldwide fan-base had scarcely dared to dream of a new Star Wars film, surviving on a diet of games, novels and comics of wide-ranging quality. Finally, the news broke, a massive - some would say unfair - hype built up, and this materialized on screens around the globe. Lucas was in full control, the cast was intriguing, what could possibly go wrong?   It turns out you can throw a lot at a film: great actors, masterful visual effects, a powerful brand, all this can be undone by a script hastily scribbled on legal pad and a director utterly uninterested in the acting process. Episode I stumbles gracelessly from story point to confusing story point, somehow building on the misguided notion that a tax dispute was the grand way to open a space opera for all ages. Our bland Jedi pick up cinema&#x27;s most misguided comic relief character and a 10 year-old Anakin along the way, which, with Portman&#x27;s almond-paste flavored queen amounts to a leading quintet that will have you yearning for the simple but strong Han-Luke- Leia dynamic of old. It&#x27;s important to note that until the very end, it is unclear who our protagonist is.  Along its bumpy path, Episode I provides little of the global prequel plot but many of its narrative inconsistencies. Set on turning Star Wars into The Legend of Darth Vader, Lucas rakes up the mythical connotations as any good student of Joseph Campbell would: Anakin is given slave origins, precocious talents, and even divine conception, the latter tentatively given the silliest scientific explanation in the history of cinema. With so much wasted effort thrown at Anakin, Ewan McGregor&#x27;s Obi Wan Kenobi and Liam Nesson&#x27;s Qui Gon Jin are left with vague character sketches. The former defaults to an Alec Guinness impression and the latter manages to give his lines more weight and dignity than the material deserves.  In this context, Jar Jar Binks is not the hateful monstrosity many would have you believe. He is almost at home in a movie with much larger problems, particularly one of tone, something even hinted at in the last moments of Lucasfilm&#x27;s promotional making of doc. Episode I never knows what it wants to be: action fantasy? Political thriller? Kid flick? In trying to mix all of those, it fails in every respect, and all that is left is nostalgia value, and though it is considerable and proved easy to milk back in 1999, it goes a long way to showing why time has not been kind to the prequels or to this episode in particular.  You probably don&#x27;t need to see this, but if you do, take it as an interesting expos&#xE9; of all that can wrong in the filmmaking process (or let the hilarious Mr Plinkett review do that for you and vindicate your wasted time). Quality is a subjective thing, so we can at least credit George Lucas with one amazing feat: he made a truly, objectively bad film."
"I just sat down and watched the movie again after viewing the original trilogy, and I have to say, it could&#39;ve been worse.  The story was there, the action was there (although you could still tell they used miniatures on strings) what was clearly missing was the acting, and the sense of novelty. When the original trilogy came out, it was unique. It presented a simple world, with good and evil, and an all-powerful force. And laser swords. Sure, this movie&#39;s lightsaber action was good, (especially the end sequence) But the acting was very, very shallow. And even after watching this again, I don&#39;t know why Jar-Jar was introduced. And if they had to bring him in, don&#39;t make him so dumb.  Anyway, I digress. The political background was deep and intense, but the movie almost seem too politics based.   One thing I didn&#39;t understand was why everyone had different accents. That was strange, and detracts from the overall experience.   Anyway, it&#39;s definitely worth another watch, if only for the action, or just to watch all the Star Wars movies again.  6/10 stars."
"I actually consider my-self lucky enough to witness and experience the magic of the Star Waes saga as I was never really around when the original 3 films were made . But the funny thing is that George Lucas still some how managed to bring us a prequel trilogy to the original trilogy to set it all out and tell us how it all began . I had already read several other comments on this board that either liked it , hated it or just checked it out for the just the thrill of the movie . Either way there is no denying that the movie made a boat load full of money and sparked probably storms on its own across the internet community . First thing that I thought about was the way the film was approached , unlike the other other conventional 3 this one had a very different taste and feel to it which NO Star Wars fan can deny ! The CGI was out of this world and made out to be as realistic as they could be but what else would you expect ! The fight sequences were cool but the last one between Obi-Wan , Qui-Gonn and Maul was probably one of the best fights I have seen out of the Star Wars saga as well as any other movie . The film kept on pushing forwards although sometimes I felt it was rushed in a few places (come on George you got 2 other films to expand on .) I can understand why fans are also pretty annoyed with this one and a big reason for that was the action as it was pretty limited in this one (either it was crammed into one place and time or it was over before you knew it .). Another thing was the intergalactic federation with its tax policies and other various forms of politics which to some point kept me in as I do have a bit of a Keen interest in politics . The presence of the Sith were all so very little as they were mainly used in the background as a sub-plot which will thicken as the saga moves forward , and there was not enough of Darth Maul shown as any fan will point out his history which happens to be quite interesting and thusly he can stand out on his own but was suppressed to a very basic henchman and not the an appearance however credit due to Ray Park for the way he played the character . Another thing was the rather some what racist voice overs used to describe most of the other aliens i.e. Jar Jar Binks who obviously the bumbling black guy used for comic relief but was just not funny at all and yes he was very annoying ! The Federation owners who were made to sound like 2 yakaza cooperate gangsters . Jake Llyod who played the young Skywalker done a good job but even he had his moments . Its hard for me to give this film a hard mark as it is George Lucas&#39;s big return to the silver screen and some rust is to be expected after 15 years of exile but in the end I think George Lucas spent a little too much time on CGI , sets , pods etc and making this The Phantom Menace to be more fabric then flesh .  To some it up , Star Wars - Episode 1 : The Phantom Menace , is a film that oozes masses of potential but needed a lot more time and approach rather than being hyped up beyond apprehension which has resulted in a disappointed effort by Lucas . It still shines through in places and thusly because of that fans including my-self are oddly drawn to it . Hopefully the other episode 2 will push on further and take us deeper.  STAR WARS : EPISODE 1 - THE PHANTOM MENACE AVERAGE 5 OUT 10 FOR NOW THIS IS THE SHADOWMAN WISHING YOU GOOD LUCK AND GOOD NIGHT !"
"Well, the first 3 Parts of Star Wars (Episode 4,5,6) were spectacular. Almost everything was done right. But then........26 years later came the big change.Welcome to the category: Hollywood's most embarrassing Sequels! Okay, there are worse movies and it wasn't that bad but rather mediocre. First the good parts of Phantom Menace:  .The Effects were quite good .Darth Maul was a remarkable villain .The Final Fight  The bad parts:  .Too juvenile .Jar Jar Binx .Too commercial (In comparison to the older Episodes)  Star Wars always has been a serious saga, so what are characters like Jar jar Binx good for? Phantom Menace had a Target group of 6-11 year old kids and that's what Star Wars shouldn't be: A Kids Entertainment.  Popcorn Entertainment but nothing more!"
"This is an example of how technology can render actors impotent, mislead a director, bury the story-making process and basically result in a film that looks like a video game.  I'm sure you've heard endless comparisons with the original trilogy, episodes 4, 5 and 6. You know what those films had going for them that this one doesn't have? Focus on the story.  This isn't a film, it's an advertisement for Lucasfilm's digital effects prowess.  Apart from the over-digitalization of anything and everything, let's look at the story. We know Anakin needs to get to the Jedi and become apprenticed. Really, all the good stuff happens NOT when he's a kid, but when he's older. They could've done Phantom Menace in a half-hour and taken Attack of the Clones for the next one and a half, and set us up for Episode 3 earlier.  But no, Lucas wants to show us how clever his digital effects are. So he puts us through a pointless racing sequence, a gratuitous land battle that doesn't add anything to the grand scheme of the saga, and a space battle of no consequence.  George, you can't make a movie by moving your mouse cursor excitedly over your graphics program, OK?"
"After seeing some of the silly changes made to the Star Wars trilogy in the Special Edition, I knew that this movie was going to be seriously inferior to the original trilogy and that Lucas had lost his vision and was merely looking to tinker with the new special effects technology at his disposal.  However, I was somewhat pleasantly surprised with the film. It wasn't quite as bad as I thought it might be. It had something that passed for a plot and a few interesting characters.  The problems with the film really stuck out. First, the acting was marginal and the dialogue terrible and silly. Next, the special effects were too squeaky-clean and pastel-like to be believable. Nothing had that &quot;lived-in&quot; look from the original trilogy. Finally, the story doesn't mesh with the original trilogy and there are too many gaping plot holes and connections made between characters in these films and the characters in the old ones to be believable.  This was a roughly hour and a half long advertisement for Star Wars action figures. If you go into this movie wanting to see anything but that you are going to be sorely disappointed."
"This movie has no business holding the name of Star Wars. It's got some lightsabers... I'll give you that. I hear a lot of people trying to explain this movie in an attempt to downplay how terrible it really was. I don't see the point in that. The original movies were made a certain way, with a certain level of quality. These were not. If Lucas ran out of good script ideas then he should have listened to some fans or better yet, the authors of his book series. They don't seem to have trouble coming up with interesting stories that fit nicely into the Star Wars universe. Star Wars is not about stupid CG characters who are clinically retarded or droids that double as ninjas."
"Episode 1 was a huge disappointment. It lacked the plot, fast pace and likable characters of the trilogy, but most of all it lacked real purpose (other than making money) - it seemed to me that Lucas really had nothing to say.  Sure, he is unrivaled in his ability to create visually stunning images and visually interesting action sequences, but these need to be a backdrop to a good story - not a substitute for one.  It was also difficult to tell who the intended audience was. Children would find much of the political machinations to be dull or incomprehensible, while adults are left shaking their heads at the child-like simplicity in which adult relationships are depicted.   And then there is the painfully awkward dialog - one that made the gifted cast seem as wooden as amateur players.  In summary, this film should be avoided by anyone who is seeking entertainment value."
"Will thy Lord have mercy on poor George Lucas's soul for creating this piece of wasted screen time and special effects. Star Wars is one, possibly the, most famous trilogy of all time.... so why did this movie suck so much?!  One: The acting was bad, especially little Anikin. When Anikin is flying that ship at the end and spewing those cheesy one-liners I felt like killing myself.  Two: The pod racer scene was obviously put in there to take up time and advertise the Pod-Racer video game for the N64.   Three: Jar-Jar Binks.  Four: There was no big fight scene except the droids vs those f*****g Jar-Jars. Which basically ruined the scene. And then that silly little par between the weird guy and the other two guys. That fight sucked too.  Five: Too many side plots.  Six:...................do I really have to go on? This movie sucked, final answer."
"I am not one of those Die Hard fans of the original ones (Only saw them some 20-30times), but after seeing this movie I now claim that Star-Wars is a Trilogy, and always will be.   I saw this in a Norwegian Cinema and the first disappointment came as early as when I noticed that they'd translated the text disappearing into space... Poorly!! This is a clear indicator that this movie is meant kids, not grown ups who speak English, why else would they bother to translate this, taken into consideration that English is thought in Norwegian schools since 1st grade. In my opinion child actors (with very few exceptions, &quot;Annie&quot; not being one of them) are best at acting for kids. I am rather embarrassed at most of the acting in this movie, even though I have to give them some credit, this is more like a cartoon, and it couldn't have been easy standing before a blue-screen while imagining being in space. George Lucas probably thought he could camouflage it with some special effects?  The clear gap in Technology is too obvious, R2D2 can project amazing 3d (an ability he looses some 30yrs. later?). The ships from the original trilogy look like they are from another dimension. The ships in the original one were made in the 70's, but they had the look and feel as if they actually could work, and it gave the whole feel of &quot;Adventure&quot;. I just don't get the same feel from what for me looks like a &quot;silver dildo&quot; floating through space. It's almost as if they've made a poor attempt at attracting Star-Trek fans. And besides all these flaws in technology, what happened to Obi-Wan being trained by Yoda? In &quot;The empire strikes back&quot; Obi-Wan says it &#150;TWICE- and still George Lucas forgot. How could this help us sort things out? If anything I am more confused!  Not was this movie made for kids, but it through telling it as if a kid would tell it, it is a kids movie. This pretty harsh criticism, but bear with me :) Imagine a kid telling you about his day; &quot;First were on a ship, then that happened, then we were on this planet, then we left for that city, and we were in space, and we went to a city, and then we went pod-racing, and then, and then, and then&#133;.&quot; For some it might be a bit difficult to notice, but George Lucas has cleverly left out all the adventure, all the fantasy, all the trivia. I never once wanted to &quot;be there&quot; like I wanted in the original ones. This movie has no soul, no feel, no appeal.   This is from the Star Wars universe, but it is not a prequel. Why didn't they hire some of the guys responsible for Knights of the old Republic (VG)? Or why not the ones who made Battlestar Galactica? Fire George Lucas, that might bring Star Wars back to its former glory!"
"I have to admit, I enjoyed watching 'The Phantom Menace' when it was on at the cinema. I was swept in by the special effects and thought Jar Jar was hilarious. However, when I sat down to watch it seriously, I was severely let down. George Lucas has obviously lost his film-making touch throughout the years. He doesn't concentrate on the characters enough, and there are too many special effects, some of which are very obvious. Considering the acting talent he had at his disposal, I would have thought that this film would be as good as the original trilogy was, but it wasn't. Liam Neeson, Ewan McGregor and Natalie Portman all just seem to go through the motions, and this is one film I think they should leave off their resumes. And as for Jake Lloyd...well, if Lucas wanted to surprise the audience by showing them what Darth Vader/Anakin was like as a child, then he has succeeded a little too much. Lloyd is extremely irritating in that &quot;child actor&quot; way, and I really did think he was even more annoying than Jar Jar (who is basically a black stereotype made to look like an alien). I liked the John Williams score, but it just isn't enough here."
"What's wrong with good old George-Boy? Why did he do THIS(!) - this crapmovie?  The colours in the Film - THESE MARSHMALLOW-COLOURS!!!  Then this absolutely ridiculous DARTH MAUL - shining eyes, red skin and horns - ooohhh, how scary! (An adaption of the devil? - Oh my god...)  Darth Vader looks like having been a Gay-Teen-Anakin!  The fighting-scenes (double-lightsword!) are overdone and pure showmanship.  The whole story is poor and there is a love-story no one really needs.  All in all CRAP!"
"george lucas must have gone senile.. or just plain greedy and stupid.  my friends, this man is a crook. he stole my $10. he made a film purely for kids. it has all the aspects of a bad childrens show: colours and silly action and nothing deeper than that.  i feel that if he had started with Anakin already at the age he was in episode 2, and made a more gritty feel to things the movie would have been much better. also, if he had spent a while longer trying to make a meaningful star wars script, it would have turned out much better. too much advanced tech make the 3 original films seem like they were in the past. lucas failed at his own game and i'd like to kick him in the nuts for it, cuz he's ruined my favorite movie series."
"This movie was the first of the new trilogy, and expectations were running high. I was fortunate to see it on the first night of general release in the UK; it was a colourful affair, with people brandishing lightsabres, donned in capes and wearing Danish pastries on their heads! After half an hour of trailers, the film finally rolled...and it was astonishingly, well, average.  The acting and script stank to high heaven, a number of characters were down-right annoying (J.J. Binks, Anakin), and the pace of the film was all a bit slow - it was apparent that George Lucas had become overwhelmed by the special effects, and was reluctant to chop out scenes to keep things cracking along. The original trilogy was not directed by Lucas (he directed only the first movie), and rightly so; his personal involvement with the project got in the way of his directorial duties, which really should have been given to a more able person. Lucas is a fine producer and creator, but his directorial career is patchy.  I saw the film a number of times that summer (I was bored and had a pass to the cinema), and it did improve with each viewing, but it fails my DVD test, which is, would I pay money, even at budget price, to have this on DVD? Answer: No."
"I never paid much attention to Star Wars and I was never a big fan of the films, but I did see the first three when I was a kid and again when I got older, and I still kind of liked them. But this addition to the series is nowhere near as good as the old films. First off, it's much more colorful, which I don't like, but maybe it's kind of fitting. Also, however, the acting, story, scene flow, and directing aren't near as well done as in the older films. There was hardly anything in the movie to keep me in my seat watching it. Most people hated the film, although it is impossible to rate this film without comparing it to the older films. Few people thought the film was okay, and even fewer loved it. The only people who did love this movie were small children and idiots who thought the androgynous Jar-Jar Binks character was clever, and die-hard Star Wars fans. Yet some big Star Wars fans hated it, because they didn't have to hypnotize themselves to convince their minds that this movie was actually good, and they actually liked it, because all Star Wars films are good, right? They just accepted the fact that this movie sucks."
"Many years i waited for any kind of new star wars activity, my eyes crying with happiness at the news of a new star wars movie, i left the cinema also with eyes if tears, only this time, tears of sadness, disgust and a bitter sense of betrayal. It was terrible, sure the pod racing scene was revolutionary and other cgi effects but jar jar binks or whatever his name was completely destroyed the films chances of ever holding a clean slate, he was so childish and annoying. Did anyone want to take a hammer to his head or was that juts me. KILL JAR JAR BINKS!! Just another crumy way of getting cash without the flare or imaginative prospects of the original trilogy. Oh and why wont they let us buy the originals on DVD, i don't want the remastered versions with more extra scenes than buses in London! Give us the original not these new steaming piles of turd only fit for pre teens with no idea for cinema!!!!!"
"Star Wars:  Episode I was a decent movie; but it was just plain awful compared to the other Star Wars movies.  The movie had action, special effects, and even a few memorable lines, but it lacked a lot of heart.  Much of the acting was stale; granted, some of that can be attributed to the fact that the protagonists in this movie are on more of a professional than a personal level as opposed to the informal relationships in the original trilogy, but still, there is no excuse for some of it.   The inclusion of the midi-chlorians is arguably the worst thing ever created for a Star Wars movie; that's saying a lot considering this is the movie that gave us Jar Jar Binks.  And what's up with Yoda's look in this movie?  Still, the movie is not without its moments.  The pod race is exciting, and the brief memorable dialog (&quot;There's always a bigger fish.&quot;) is refreshing.  I didn't feel it was too bad while watching it in the theater.  It's basically a watchable movie, not a great one."
"while this movie didn't quite elicit the guffaws of Episode II, I think it's pretty safe to say that Mr. Lucas can no longer be trusted with the Star Wars empire. The script was positively wretched: &quot;I'm not a slave, I'm a person, and my name is Anakin!&quot; Is he serious? Lucas should remember the lesson he learned when he was producing the first round of Star Wars--things turn out better when you work with a script writer. Look how wonderful &quot;The Empire Strikes Back&quot; was? Now that Mr. Peter Jackson has shown us what can be done with fantasy, Lucas is going to have to put his nose to the grind stone if he wants to catch up."
"As a very big STAR WARS fan, I was very disappointed by THE PHANTOM MENACE. After waiting 16 LONG years after RETURN OF THE JEDI, the film did not live up to all the hype it was initially given. I was so psyched up for this movie, I spent 7 dollars to see the teaser trailer when it was on MEET JOE BLACK. After viewing THE PHANTOM MENACE at a midnight show, I turned to my friend and said, &quot;I waited 16 years for this????&quot;  George Lucas had a huge task ahead of him--to match the success of the three classic movies he made almost 20 years before. As the first act in a six-part story, I was unsure what this movie would be like. The fact is, it was a pretty dull movie. The action sequences were nothing spectacular, although the lightsaber battle in the end was pretty good.  The CG character of Jar Jar Binks I just wanted to strangle. Hopefully, if Lucas releases a special edition perhaps he could digitally remove Jar Jar. Unfortunately, Jar Jar is a big part of the story and needs to be there. &quot;How wude!&quot;  Ewan McGregor did a good job as Obi-Wan. He was very convincing as a &quot;young Alec Guiness.&quot; Other than a few things, there is really nothing to this movie.  I can just hope with EPISODE III in 2005 Lucas can make a killer movie and redeem himself for the garbage he's presented with EPISODE I &amp; II. We'll know in 2 years.  ** (out of 4)"
"I didnt like this movie much (or the next one for that matter). The major problem was that it lacked any decent characters. You simply didn't care about any of them. When ObiWan died in Ep IV you feel sad. But when Quigon dies you dont care too much either way. Amidala was alright, but she is no Leah. Etc Etc  Also, Lucas overuses CGI. His CGI looks real fake because his direction of the virtual camera is undisciplined. There is way too much panning 1000ft in the air for it too be believable.  My final gripe is the Immaculate Conception of Anakin story. How lazy is that? What next, a great flood?  5/10"
"Ugh.......  Where shall I begin?  Bad acting.  No plot.  Bad script.  Jar Jar Binks....  I grew up with Star Wars. I loved the original trilogy. This movie makes me want to puke. The entire movie is just a miss-match of junk. There's no coherency in this film what so ever. It's hard to follow and it's boring. And why have we been subjected to Jar Jar? Spare me, please. The light sabre battle at the end of the film was probably the best part of the film, but that's not saying much."
"what did George Lucas do?  i can't imagine what goes through his head... how can he make the Star Wars trilogy great, and then make this piece of crap!?  no one is interesting and this movie is the biggest waste of time. the only thing worse is Attack of the Clones.  and it's not the actors, because Natalie Portman is an excellent actress...  2/10"
"Now before I start I want to make it clear that I am a huge Star Wars fan. I love the original trilogy and have seen it many times.  It is one of the classics of film history.  Not so with the first installment of the prequel trilogy...  Why for the love of all that's good and pure did Lucas decide to direct the actors himself? The man may have many talents, but getting the best out of his actors aint one of them. &quot;The Empire Strikes Back&quot;, arguably the best movie of the trilogy, was not directed or even written entirely by Lucas. This also goes for &quot;Jedi&quot;.  The only one of the original 3 that he wrote and directed by himself was the &quot;Star Wars&quot; and the acting is a little stiffer then the other 2 (I know to some this is sacrilege, but watch it again and watch Mark Hamil closely and you'll know what I mean).  I don't know why Lucas would decide to direct and write these movies himself when the best ones were done with help from others. Lucas's talent was always the special effects. And with that lead in we get to the 5 big reasons why I absolutely HATED this movie:  1. The ACTING (or lack there-of): Holy crap! This movie reminded me of a High School play.  Wait, that's not fair! I've seen some really good high school plays.  If you're gonna hire a kid to play a young Darth Vader MAKE SURE THEY CAN ACT!!!! I don't care how cute they are (By the way...Yippee!? What the hell is that?! No self respecting kid says Yippee!). Ewen McGreggor and Sammie L. were pretty much the only 2 who can claim the title of actor in this movie, and even they gave disappointing performances. Now I do feel sorry for the man who has to fill in Alec Guinness's shoes, but the best way to deal with it is to give your own performance and not an Obi Wan impersonation. I also feel sorry for Sammie L. cause he is a good actor, I just don't think he had a lot to work with...which brings me to my second point:  2. The PLOT (or-again-lack there-of): This really bugged me about the story so I'll include it here: Why did they feel it necessary to explain where the force comes from? They didn't in the previous three and that was just fine. You set up rules for the Universe your story takes place in and the audience understands those rules.  The Force exists. It doesn't need a reason. Anyone who can't deal with it without an explanation probably wouldn't really enjoy the movie anyway. Anywho, end that rant for another one: Can we say NON EXISTENT plot?!? Can we say VIDEO GAME marketing?!? Can we say excuses for copious amounts of CGI?!? Oh look! A lead in to my third point...  3. The SPECIAL EFFECTS: Yes they were cool, blah blah blah...does anyone else miss the days when people had to WORK to get cool special effects, not just type code into a computer? CGI looks really fake when not done properly.  It looks all shiny.  That was the problem with this movie.  The thing I find sad is that in the 70's, when the original &quot;Star Wars&quot; came out they managed to put together cooler (and more convincing) special effects. Plus the aliens, while muppets, still held my attention longer.  Yay! It moves so neatly to my fourth point:  4.The ALIENS: what the hell is the deal with the aliens with accents?!? In the original movies the aliens either spoke English or another language. They did not have TERRIBLE accents.  The trade guild/union (whatever) aliens I dubbed &quot;the French-Canadian Chinese Fish&quot;. Man could my french teacher do a good impression of them. Why not just have subtitles? Does Lucas think we are unable to READ? I'll take subtitles over bad Jamaican accents any day. Which brings me to my fifth and final point...  5. JAR-JAR: I hate him.  I despise him. I wanted to take a light saber and lop his head off.  I wish Obi Wan had. How could anyone think that Jar-Jar would be funny? You know what would have been funny?...His painful and agonizing death. He was too moronic to be a good character and destroyed a lot of the point of Star Wars.  In the original movies our heroes worked hard to achieve victory.  In Phantom Menace Jar-Jar falls on his ass to single-handedly win a battle. It's mind boggling. It hurts me. I hate you Jar-Jar. (I am reminded of &quot;the Simpsons&quot; where the comic book guy is sleeping with a Jar-Jar doll and says, &quot;Oh Jar-Jar, everyone hates you but me.&quot; So true, so true.)  Despite this, the movie did really well.  I guess we were all so starved for move Star Wars that we attempted to ignore that overall crappyness of &quot;Phantom Menace&quot;, or perhaps its because this proved that obscene amounts of CGI can triumph over a thin, poorly written plot and bad acting any day."
"On Seinfeld, Jerry asked Elaine if she was familiar with Bizarro Superman. She wasn&#39;t. Jerry went on to explain that Bizarro Superman was from the Bizarro world, a planet where everything is backwards compared to our world. Down is up, left is right, hello is goodbye...or bad bye, whatever. Bizarro Superman was, as you may guess, the opposite of Superman.  Welcome to Bizarro Star Wars.  Like the good space battles from ANH and ROTJ? Watch the Bizarro space battles in TPM, where no viewer has any idea at all about what&#39;s going on and victory is gained through sheer dumb luck.  Like good dialogue in the style of ANH and ESB? Well, in Bizarro dialogue, you get treated to nuggets such as &quot;That&#39;s gotta hurt.&quot;  Like unique characters like the droids and Chewbacca? Bizarro oddball Jar Jar Binks will make you rue the day you wished for variety in the characters you watch.  I hate that this movie has the Star Wars name attached to it. Attack of the Clones was wonderful fun, but look what it followed. Independence Day is pretty good compared with The Phantom Garbage.  Most sadly of all, I&#39;m such a Star Warshipper that TPM is in my collection anyway. May the Force be with Episode III.  Explanation of rating: Star Wars movies get an automatic five stars from me; if episodes 4-6 didn&#39;t exist, this movie gets 2 stars."
"This is the worst Star Bores movie ever made, I could barely sit through the thing and I could seriously kill the actor who did Jar Jar's voice (shakes fist).  George Lucas has completely lost touch with the audience of today, they do not want to see a space movie with a damn plot, they want two hours of lightsabers god damnit.  The script and acting were absoultly terrible as was the casting, except for Portman, can't complain there at all (scratches croth). Anyways, the actors should all rot in hell, as well as anyone who thought this movie was worth 9 dollars in theatres or 20 something on DVD. Screw Flanders."
"After the long, long wait after ROTJ, we get this? The Phantom Menace had to be the most disappointing movie I have ever seen. Maybe I'm just to old for these movies, but I just rewatched A New Hope (SW 4) today and it still kicks @ss. PM dropped the ball big time and unfortunatly never picked it up, even AOTC was bad, but this was horrible. Much like Godfather 3 almost ruined the Godfather trilogy (my all time favorite trilogy), The Phantom Menace almost ruined the Star Wars franchise. I was expecting a lot out this move, maybe to much, but even the story was bad. The only two redeeming factors are Natalie Portman and the Pod Races, Natalie brought style and grace to the Queen. The pod races were just plain cool and enjoyable, but the worst part of the movie, Jar-Jar. What the hell is the point of him, he's more annoying then Tom Green. Out of 10 I gave the PM 3/10, and I hated to do it, but I hope Mr. George Lucas does a better job with the third film, hopefully more like ESB was, the best of the franchise."
"This movie kinda killed the whole Star Wars thing for me.  I remember actually being disturbed that I was bored thirty-minutes into the film. Being bored was pretty much the last thing I expected.  Aside from the ambitious animation, everything seemed diminished.  The Force went from being a limitless potential that some people were in tune with to something you test for like AIDS, pregnancy or allergies.  Hammy characters like Vader and Han Solo (or even Leia's inexplicable haughty phase) gave way to one of the blandest casts I've ever seen in any film not by Antonioni. The brittle American Graffiti/jet engine aesthetic of the ships in the first films is gone in favor of glossy-plastic ships that dissolve into explosions.  The clumsily abrupt scenes separated by wipes were replaced by interminable sequences of clunky dialogue.  I never thought that there would be a step down from Ewoks, but there's Jar Jar.  I think this film exterminated much of the devoted Star Wars fanbase in the same way that Voyager thinned the ranks of Star Trek fans.  I went to see Nemesis recently and couldn't help but notice that there weren't throngs of people who had been camped out in Starfleet uniforms awaiting the opening. Ditto with Attack of the Clones - the population of costumed campers had dwindled to almost nothing.  (Now they're all wearing Lord or the Rings outfits and designing Matrix fansites - Lucas pretty much lost them, which, despite what he says, has to matter to someone who built an empire on merchandising to exactly those people.)  Another indication of this falling off is the degree to which the new films have failed to penetrate the wider culture.  You can still quote Darth Vader and people know what you're talking about.  Say `use the force, Luke' and almost anyone on earth knows what you mean.  Does anyone quote the Phantom Menace?  Ever?  The only reference to the Phantom Menace that I think pretty much anyone could get is Jar Jar Binks, universally understood to be an unwelcome annoyance.  The choreography of the final saber duel was really wonderful (even though Darth Maul dies standing there like an idiot while Obi-wan flips over him and stabs him in a move that doesn't seem much more impressive than any of the other moves that Maul previously shrugged off.)  Even so, when I think back on 1999 sci-fi fun, The Phantom Menace pretty much sucks compared to The Matrix and the video game Half-Life.  Actually, now that I think about, playing Jedi Knight II is much more fun than watching PM.  Also, the console flight-sim based on PM was mediocre.  NOTE:  Of course it was the forth-highest grossing film in history.  It's Star Wars!  There are tens of millions of us that HAD to see the extension of the movies that were the most influential franchise of our childhood and changed Hollywood.  If Titanic II is ever made by Cameron and the latest teen stars, it would bring in a similar (but probably not nearly as huge) tidal wave of people that had to see for themselves if the magic cotton candy of their teens could come again.  Lucas could have made the Phantom Menace ten times worse than it is and it still would have had an opening weekend that set records."
"Here's a great idea: never let people see screentests with better actors than the one you chose.  Jake Lloyd was easily the worst performance of a child actor in history.  He made me root for Sebulba (spelling?) in the pod race.  Forget the abomination of Jar-Jar Binks, let's talk about that rotten little kid.  Why didn't Lucas CGI a kid in there?  It couldn't have been worse, could it?  Why didn't Liam Neeson do that weird fading thing ObiWan does in episode 3?  Is there any logic to this stuff at all?  I am seriously doubting it. Sheesh, I don't need to go too far into this flick--it'll take all week to discuss the bad..."
"I saw the original Star Wars when I was 6 years old, and I loved it. I had never seen anything like that before, and neither had anybody else. Having said that, the only forward progress the series made, was from Star Wars to The Empire Strikes Back. After that the movies have gotten worse by leaps and bounds. Which brings me to The Phantom Menace. This movie is embarrassing it's so bad. Every time I see Jar Jar Binks I want to shoot the TV like Elvis. The story is absolutely ridiculous, and if you can still be impressed by the special effects after the first time you see it, then I'm guessing that you're below the age of 10. After the special effects wear off, you're left with nothing but bad acting and crappy dialogue.  I'm still curious why George chose to make Anekin a bumbling fool operating more on fantastic luck than on the skill of the midget-chlorines or whatever they're called. It's deplorable! The scene where he flies into the enemy mother ship by accident makes my face turn red with shame it's so bad.  I guess the moral here is, Star Wars has always sucked, but we were just too young to realize it.  5 out of 10 (and I'm being generous here, people!)"
"Let me begin by saying that I have seen all the other currently released Star Wars movies. However, when I sat down to watch Episode 1, I was unable to sit all the way through it! It seemed so boring, and the inclusion of Jar Jar Binks did not help it, either. It was thoroughly uninspiring. Episode 2, however, was different..."
"Stop for a moment, and pretend this movie is not a part of the Star Wars trilogy x 2. Watch the film, and judge it on its own merits.  Typical of Lucas, Star Wars Episode 1 employs an amazing amount of Industrial Light and Magic wizardry to execute a dazzling display of special effects and graphics. Obviously a lot of money was spent here.  However, after the CGI, the list of pros for Episode 1 seems absent. Fundamentally, the plot is poor, and the character development is even worse. Quite honestly, I did not care for a single one of these characters. In fact, in some cases, I would have been quite happy if they had disappeared.  It's a pity that films don't gross dollars in the box-office based upon the merits of the quality of the film, but on the hype and advertising stigma around it. We expected a sequel to be better than the originals? Not really, but we didn't expect it to be THIS bad.  Entertainment? Hold off Episode 1, and pick up some bubblewrap instead."
This film is absolute rubbish.Jar Jar binks should be shot tarred all over and used as a very big torch.You can see why some animal parents eat their young. As for Anakin he was so annoying. Its great to think that the most powerful Jedi saved the film by accidently pressing a button. Yippeeeee he must have thought. This film only got 3/10 for me simply because its star wars.George lucas stop directing you had the right idea with the first 3 films.Ps the CGI is crap i think he should talk to peter jackson and his staff about how to do properly and with out so much shinyness
"The one line summary is all i need.  Lack of plot, lack of good acting, all except the lightsaber sequences, natalie portman and ewan mcgregor; horrible kiddy characters (i.e. jar jar binks) with useless roles, only for minor comic relief to audiences under the age of 7.  The only character worthy of screen time (Darth Maul) ends up getting sliced in half.  And in &quot;The Empire Strikes Back&quot; didn't Obi-Wan say he trained directly under Yoda?  Well apparently, mistaken was George Lucas."
"Imagine if the prequels came out before Ep. IV-VI?  Now vote again. C'mon, who in their right mind would consider this movie anything more than a four. I mean, it is the first episode.  I gave it a one for the huge letdown factor.  All of a sudden non-humans speak English, yet with European, Jamaican accents?  That's kind of odd considering that Greedo didn't seem to speak any English in Ep. IV, nor Jabba the Hut, or any other non-human.  And don't even get me started with Jar-Jar.  Minus three points just for his presence in this &quot;film&quot;.  Plus, the fact that the special effects looked like CGI and virtual-realistic compared to realistic models in Ep. IV-VI.  I've always preferred real models to CGI anyhow.  It looks possible, not like a computer game.  Bear in mind, the models special effects are after the CGI ones, time-wise.  Pure crap.  Lucas' ego is a big-headed figuratively as it is literally. He should have never taken over so much of his own creation.  The loss, forcibly, of a great director like Irvin Kershner and screenplay writers Leigh Brackett and Lawrence Kasdan from Ep. V was a major blow to what made SW so great and...cool.  Lucas had a great concept/story, but cannot himself make it perfection without help."
"Hands up anyone who thinks that George Lucas should be shot for ruining a great series of films. Okay, so he did direct Episode IV which is in many peoples views one of the greatest films ever, fair enough, but that doesn't excuse him from the travesty he has now created.   It seems that he has lost the plot a wee bit when it comes to telling a story. In this day and age, special effects are now advancing to a point where in some cases they are overshadowing the story. This certainly seems to be the case with Episode I. There is a plot there, the only problem is that you have fight your way through loads of special effects, as good as they are, to get to it. Even the acting is abysmal. It's about as wooden as what you'd find in a Z-grade soap opera. What a waste of talented actors such Liam Neeson and Samuel L. Jackson hey. Lucas is technical director not an actors one and it shows.  It would have been a wise choice to let his mate, fellow Beard, Steven Speilberg to have a bash at directing an episode to show how incompetent Lucas really is when it comes to telling a story. Even Peter 'Bad Taste' Jackson would be more than an ample choice at helming an episode as he has definitely proved his worth with the first two Lord of the Rings installments.  A word of advice George, give it up while you're still in front. Episodes IV - VI are great films and that's what they'll be remembered for, not some money making scheme that the new films appear to be."
"Time flies, even in space. Star Wars I may be traveling backward in time, to earlier days, but George Lucas sure did not. What he did in the 70's with heartfelt delight, he repeated by the turn of the century with pretense. This is a story from a middle-aged man, trying to disguise as a kid thing.  It's all about politics and power-play. Not with light-sabers swung by valiant knights soaring through the cosmos, chasing each other, but with talking and intrigue. Boring. The parliament of a distant future looks just the same as they do today, with the same agenda, too. Trade treaties, manipulation, diplomacy, parliamentary hoc et poc.  There is some fighting, but this time just like any modern kungfu movie, lacking the refinement and originality (well, that was snatched from Kurosawa) of the previous trio. Actually, all of the ingredients lack originality, fantasy, bewilderment. It's just business, all of it. Must a man grow to such bleak priorities?"
"I was SO SO SO Disappointed with this movie, I almost cried! To put it bluntly it was one of the worst films ive ever seen.  Script was terrible, no depth in any of the characters, Special effects looked way to computer generated, i.e. Yoda looked terrible, what happened to the models and puppets.  Jar Jar Binks: - I hoped they killed him off within 5 minutes of watching the film.  The only cool character was Darth Maul, but he was killed off too quickly and wasn't in the film enough.  The light sabres, ships etc make it look like it was set as a sequel rather than a prequel. C3PO and R2D2 just were not needed, and look back when watching the originals; you would never have thought Darth Vader was C3PO's creator. What a big mistake that was.  It spoilt the whole Star Wars franchise for me. I'm so glad the people behind the creation of the Star Trek Films don't make appalling cock-ups like this."
"This is a two hour long promotional video for Lucas's Industrial Light and Magic (he all but says as much in the extras of the DVD). Even then, it's a disappointment - they seem to have lost the edge that the newer and more innovative entrants have. I guess it's just another day at the office. This would be forgivable if the movie had something to say, but it doesn't.  Maybe the original Star Wars (Ep 4) wasn't high art, but it certainly took us places we hadn't been before, the scale was epic with a sound- track to match, and there was passion in the making of it. This prequel  feels like a cynical effort to suck some more blood from the stone."
"Some years after it came out and there are still people buzzing about this movie.  Comparing and defending it against the others.  Here is my thought on the entire situation as made obvious in this 4th presentation: Episode 1.  I was 4 years old in 1977, I remember waiting in line for 2 or 3 showings (4 or 6 hours) so that we could watch &quot;Star Wars&quot;.  Even at the age of 4 I was able to understand enough of what was going on to watch it more often than I have ever seen another movie.  By the time &quot;The Empire Strikes Back&quot; came out, I had seen Star Wars over 50 times, this all in theaters as VCRs were not known back then.  I then watched #5 a lot and then #6 3 or 4 times. When I saw &quot;Return Of the Jedi&quot; I was still young, yet saw that Lucas was dumbing down the story for the kids.  It still had its good moments yet was not as interesting as #4.  I was working in a movie theater when the redigitized version came out about 1997 and watched them a few times when we had them.  And then when #1 came out I was very excited.  But Lucas decided that he wanted to make films for his grandkids rather than people that knew the story.  Fine it is his movie, do what you will, but my thoughts are this.  You don't need to talk down to kids to make them enjoy movies.  He could have kept the same seriousness in &quot;Jedi&quot; and &quot;Phantom&quot; as he did &quot;A New Hope&quot; and still make kids enjoy them. Jar-Jar and the Frog-King's &quot;shake the head and make the cheeks splatter&quot; are just a few ways to tell parents that this movie is not intended for people that know the plot, but rather for the kids of people that know the plot.  He is no longer making Sci-Fi movies, but rather &quot;After-School specials&quot;. Jake Lloyd was too old for the part he was playing, but they said he was perfect, so they kept him... WHY?  Yes he is a child actor and he wasn't that great, but a 4 year-old could not have done a worse job.  Why didn't they find a kid the age Anakin was suposed to be and just live with the fact kids can't act, Jake couldn't either.  We were suposed to feel sorry for Anakin, but Jake made me think, what a brat, why do they want to make YOU a Jedi so bad.  There was nothing endearing about him, even when he left his mom, she didn't seem too sorry to see him go.  Even in the Indiana movies you can see Lucas making the series into kids movies.  He tried so hard to get the movie industry to get their SFX better so that he could redo #4 the way he intended, so much so that he made his own effects system, yet in #1 he hid behind the effects and decided not to put any effort in the story.  Lucas is no longer a producer of good movies, just over priced, pre-school kids movies with a lot of special effects."
"lucas made kick-ass action scenes and a sucky-ass movie.  dialogue and character development and exposition could have been done by a 1st year film school student. action sequences were a whole new level of excellence.  there was also way too much comic relief. so much so that it felt like a kids movie in a way that the original trilogy did not. the original 3 films had an adult appeal that this movie did not.  finally, how in gods name did lucas get such crappy performances out of actors generally regarded as talented. Portman, Jackson, McGregor, and Neeson are regarded as actors, not just movie stars. yet their performances sucked uniformly and for that I blame Lucas.  see it cuz you have to. but don't go it expecting anything near the first 3 Star Wars movies.  btw, Jar Jar Blinks wasn't as bad as everyone says. Remember that this is a children's movie, and you won't hate JJB as much as you would otherwise."
"I wasn't sure what was worse Jar Jar Binks or Jake Lloyds acting, maybe George Lucas' script, in any case his special effects are again amazing and the impersonation Ewan Macgregor does of Alec Guiness is well done, but Darth Maul gets killed too quickly and he had the most appeal of anyone in the picture.  And he flawlessly delivered his one line with Perfection, &quot;Yes Master&quot;  other than that I wouldn't recommend this movie unless you are a glutton for punishment."
"First of all I would like know what constitutes an 'episode'? Seeing as there were only six in a gargantuan conflict which presumably lasted years, you'd think an 'episode' would be a pretty large turning point? In the original they were: destruction of he death star, Luke is vader' son, and the destruction of another Death Star ( They might have given the most important weapon in the universe a better defence second time around ), however Episode I (and II) hardly anything consequential happens.  I have trouble believing that he would begin writing something as exciting sounding as 'Star Wars' with a story involving tax regulations. Surely, given 15 odd years to spare, a better story could have been written, maybe starting when Anakin wasn't a kid. Why do we have to see in the prequels, Anakin wrestling with his soul to prove to us he's evil? Can't we just accept that in action / adventure films bad guys get evil behind the scenes , which saves us a lot of emotional hassle?   Special effects are also a problem in Episode I and II. A reliance on CG effects has made films date even before they have been released. The purpose of special effects is , forgive me if I'm wrong, to make a scene or stunt look real. The models in the originals looked real, unlike the aliens such as jar jar which, I fear will look like brer rabbit in 'Song of the South' in a few years time. But, the various worlds lucas creates are often stunning,  The City Planet, probably lifted from Asimov's Foundation series, looks great, as does the naboo planet.  But Critisism of this film, and there has been mountains of it, is useless seeing as the movie made a billion dollars worldwide, But it was obvious that 1999 was a one off and Episode II was to receive little hype and money ( comparitivly) to Episode I."
"The dialogue throughout &quot;Star Wars: Episode I - The Phantom Menace&quot; is trite and banal. Liam Neeson's acting talents are wasted as is Ewan McGregor's (see &quot;Moulin Rouge&quot;) in something that even the wizardry of George Lucas can't rescue. Instead of Liam Neeson's character, Qui-Gon Jinn, dying near the end, making way for Ewan McGregor's character, Obi-Wan Kenobi, graduation from a padawin (sic) to a full-fledged Jedi Knight, I think a more interesting plot would have involved the kidnap of the young Anakin Skywalker by the Dark Forces. Then, perhaps, the doubts of the Jedi Council as to Skywalker's having the &quot;Force&quot; within him, could have been united by their efforts to rescue him from his abductors."
"The points of departure that characterize the differences between Episode One and the original trilogy are vast and puzzling.   First of all, the incredible lack of defining attributes (even archetypal ones) for any of the characters. Everyone seems to be a reserved, conditioned automoton lacking any human qualities.    Secondly, the childish, sketch comedy humor that would be more at home on a FOX sitcom. Jar-Jar is clumbsy (ha-ha), Jar-Jar got farted on (ha-ha), Jar-Jar steps in dung (ha-ha).   Thirdly, the immature plotting style that ends up leaving everything to fantastic coincidence. I demand someone to show me the equivalent of Anakin's joyride or Jar-Jar's &quot;heroics&quot; in the original trilogy.  And finally, a reliance on computer generated effects to cover up the first three departures.   The Episode One effects have an completely different feel that those of the original trilogy - instead of existing to augment the story they exist to mask deficeits (what's up w/ the two underwater monsters?). Of all the people that I have seen this film with only one person I know actually liked it.   He claims it is better than A New Hope because of the effects - bigger battles, more aliens, faster vehicles, cooler fight scenes. etc. To me SW movies aren't about the how &quot;big&quot; Lucas can go w/ his set pieces but rather the feeling you got from watching them.   Episode One is completely devoid of feeling on any level.  All in all, however, this film towers above the conventional trash churned out by Hollywood. For true Star Wars fans it is an opportunity to have a good laugh (&quot;There's always a bigger fish&quot; --- did he actually say that?) and hope that Lucas can muster some of the same emotions that made Episodes 4-6 so great in the next installment."
"After the greatness of the original trilogy, this movie was one of the most severe letdowns I have ever seen. To summarize:  Darth Maul, who appeared on every piece of merchandise put out for this film, is only in it for about 15 minutes. Granted, his scenes are the best of the movie (the sabre duels), but couldn't we get more out of our villian?  Jar-Jar Binks. What can I say that hasn't already been said. He's a cartoon-looking annoyance with no purpose in the film but to act like a moron. He was kicked out of his home for being clumsy, and goes on to be clumy through the entire rest of the film, doing nothing to add to the story or plot, meanwhile being the most annoying character any film has ever produced. A cheap ploy to sell toys.  Anakin Skywalker basically does nothing but drive around in speeders and say &quot;yippee!&quot; Boring, hollow, and flat the whole way through, while doing unrealistic things the highly-trained adult pilots of the movie can't do. Poorly acted, and a boring character.  All in all, the script is awful, the acting (with the exception of Obi-wan) is horrid, and often the movie is so boring you may need medical attention. I swear, during the scene at the underwater city I was clinically dead for 2 minutes.  This movie is a curse. I just saw Episode 2, and it was excellent - so why was this one so terrible?"
"Lucas would appear to have lost it. This is a really poor film, indeed so poor just a week after watching it I can remember only a select few moments. The final sabre battle is well done but that really is the only good aspect of this film.  Why an irritating child actor - frequently shouting 'yippee'? Why Jar-Jar Binks - looking like he's lost his way to a computer game? The force can be measured by a blood test?? What happened to the mystery and wonder of the originals? Add to these irritations a very muddled plot, actors that seem rather embarrassed and so much computer animation that it becomes a blur and you have a real dud.  I can only hope that this is a low point for Lucas and the Star Wars series - it really can't get any worse than this."
"Let down does not even begin to describe the whirl of loss Star Wars I has evoked across this generation of children and adults.  Has humanity been so perverted by MTV that any movie with flashy effects can numb our brains into submission such that we believe it is fantastic?  As far as I can tell, there were only three major goals in designing the opening to the Star Wars saga:  1)  Special Effects.  Into this category we can insert the pod-racing scene (to which a THIRD of the movie is devoted), the fantastic light-sabre duel, the ridiculous fish chase scene, the flashy but pointless space battle, the clueless droid 'combat' scenes, etc.  Fully half of the movie was devoted to special effects scenes which do nothing to develop character, do little to advance plot, and do much to invoke epileptic seizures.  Then, there was Jar Jar.  shudder  2)  Character Introductions.  Obi-Wan, meet Anakin.  &lt;insert dramatic pause&gt;  Audience (and some characters), meet C-3PO and R2D2.  insert dramatic pause  Amidala, meet Anakin.  insert dramatic pause  A lot of the introductions used extensive use of foreshadowing.  The trouble is (here's the big secret), we've already seen the other movies.  Yes, it's true.  We even have them memorized.  We really don't need a dramatic introduction between the characters we know appear later.  Just tell the story, and have them meet, and don't make such a huge deal about it.  Every time I meet a new person, I don't grab their hand, insert a dramatic pause, and then play triumphant music.  Really, I don't.  3)  Pandering to kids.  So, there are family movies, and there are kids movies.  Fantasy family movies include worderful little gems like Labyrinth, Willow, and Shrek.  They're fun for both adults and children, they contain strong moral themes, and they avoid nudity and excessive, explicit violence. Kids shows are a fairly recent invention based around the assumption that children are stupid, and obviously need special treatment.  They rest on the assumption that society these days is rotten because kids are exposed to harmful adult themes.  We overprotect our children and thus teach them a lack of self-reliance and responsibility.  But, I digress.  Kids shows are like Barney.  Teletubbies.  Themes so basic and blunt that they bore four year olds to tears.  Is mysticism out this decade?  We take the no-technology, mystical religion of the Jedi, and we bastardize it with science.  (What IS a midichlorian, anyway?  Are they turbocharged mitochondria on epinephedrine?  Put down the NyQuil before you hurt yourself.)  Then there is the token sterotypes of the bumbling Carribean sidekick Jar Jar (I take it CGI can't render black people...) and the devious but clumsy machinations of the evil Asian trade guild.  Did I say stereotypes?  Sorry, I meant blatant racism.  I'll cut this short and sum it up with:  Bzzzt.  Wrong answer.  Please play again."
"In short: this movie was made for kids. SMALL kids. Dialogue was bad. Not as bad as in Episode II but still bad. What about the film itself? I compare it to bad modern computer games: it's all FX, nothing else. Except that those computer games are more interesting, because they are interactive. Sure, I liked Darth Maul's character, but about everything else was far from original trilogy. Oh, I did like the scenery too."
"** out of ****  I'm not generally one of those viewers out there who feels the need to just go along with the majority opinion and hose praise or lambast a film just because that's what everyone else says.  Regardless, however, there's very little to say about Phantom Menace in general except that it IS a disappointment, not necessarily as a film in the much beloved Star Wars series, but mostly as a piece of escapist entertainment.  The fact is, while so many fans are clamoring about how it's so untrue to the rest of the series (which is actually completely untrue), the movie's real problem is that it's simply not all that well directed, well written, or well acted.  Well, sure, the first Star Wars had its fair share of clunky moments, and the dialogue and acting wasn't overall anything great, but it surged forward thanks to the energetic performances, the lively direction, and the sense that everyone involved truly had fun making the film.  Oh, and let's not forget the X-wing battle in the finale, definitely one of the most exciting dog fights in movie history.  Then there's The Empire Strikes Back, a sci-fi masterpiece of imagination, true vision, and action spectacle.  In comparison to those two, Phantom Menace often just feels like a sorry carbon-copy.  True, the special effects are a vast improvement, what with the digital age and all, but effects mean nothing if you can't entertain on any other level (be it dramatically, story-wise, action-wise), and let's face it, for the majority of its running time, all Menace offers for entertainment value is visual spectacle.  Despite the risk of sounding like an idiot, I'll go right out and say that the plot initially confused me.  From my very first viewing, I gathered it was about some planet called Naboo that had problems with the trade federation and a couple of Jedis were going to get involved in the peace talks, or something like that.  This all eventually leads to Tatooine, where Jedi Qui-Gonn Jinn (Liam Neeson) discovers Anakin Skywalker (Jake Lloyd), a young boy with the potential to be the most powerful Jedi in the world.  This is the set-up, and if things hadn't been introduced so confusingly, I'd say it's not a bad way to begin a grand epic.  The movie does get off to a fairly rousing start, with John Williams' magnificent score setting the tone for what should have been great things to come.  The lightsaber fights with the robots added to the excitement, but once things hit Tatooine, this is where the movie really stumbles.  Yes, this is where we are introduced to...Jake Lloyd!  This kid's performance has become something of a legend in movie lore. It's kind of like how you try your best not to mention Ishtar to a group of movie lovers (or Patch Adams to real doctors).  Really, I know Lloyd was just a nine-year old kid, but a good deal of the movie does ride on this kid's shoulders, and I don't mean this just in terms of the plot.  How superb (or not) his performance is sets up our emotional involvement in this character. Think of Empire of the Sun for a moment, which featured the most brilliant child actor performance of all time from Christian Bale (with Haley Joel Osment coming in second very closely in The Sixth Sense).  If Bale had been acting on Lloyd's level, Empire would have had an Ishtar-like fate and Spielberg would have been laughed out of Hollywood (okay, that's a little extreme but I'm trying to make a point).  I see I'm just dancing around the subject, so I'll get to the point.  Plain and simple, Lloyd's performance is absolutely awful.  Now, I don't know what it was in this kid that Lucas saw, but he carries none of the emotions we would expect in a young Anakin.  Hell, he doesn't even act like a real kid. Most of the time, he just seems like what he is-a child actor desperately trying to remember his lines to the point where he can't emote.  I know most people hated Jar-Jar Binks, but this kid annoyed me so much more.  At least Jar-Jar seemed like a real individual, and for crying out loud, he was a CGI creation!  Natalie Portman is better than Lloyd as Queen Amidala, but still pretty flat.  Given that Portman is indeed a talented young actress (much moreso than Carrie Fisher ever was, not to mention she's also considerably better-looking), but she never seems all that involving.  Either that, or she mistakenly believes lack of emotion is the right way to generate a sense of honor and nobility.  Whatever the reason, she's bland.  Ewan Macgregor gets almost absolutely nothing to do as Obi-Wan Kenobi, except fight quite a bit, and yes indeed, he looks impressive wielding a lightsaber.  I'd say about 1/3 of his dialogue consists of the word &quot;Master,&quot; which he utters a little unconvincingly at times, but he's generally okay, and I'm sure he'll have much more to work with in the sequels (whether or not it's good material remains to be seen).  And the scene where he meets Anakin for the first time, basically a cute little hello to who he believes is no more than just a cute boy, is actually quite creepy when you consider what's going to happen down the road.  Of the lead performers, only Liam Neeson registers superbly.  His performance is certainly far more lively than anybody else's, and it took me much, much longer than the other actors to notice some of his dialogue was a little lackluster, a sure-fire sign of good acting.  Honor and nobility seem to come almost naturally to him, and for my money, Neeson is even better than Alec Guinness was in the original Star Wars (Gasp!  Blasphemy!).  Overall, it seems interesting characters is something this movie is missing. Other than Jinn and Binks (who is amusing in an off-kilter way), the only other guy that sparked my interest was Darth Maul, played by a bad-ass Ray Parks.  Sure, he utters maybe only three lines in the whole movie, but damn, this guy has some very impressive moves.  Plus, he just looks absolutely frightening.  I go to watch Star Wars to be entertained, to be swept away by a fully-realized universe, by a true epic story, by the immense action sequences.  But, alas, none of this occurs on a very consistent basis. While the sets are imaginative and amazingly crafted, pretty-looking scenery isn't going to hold my attention forever.  The story starts to feel a little dumb after awhile, especially once Lucas starts mentioning about how Jedis are determined by the amount of midi-chlorians in their blood, an explanation that put a sour taste in my mouth the first time I saw the film (but, to be fair, I've since mostly gotten over it).  Too many things happen by coincidence, and I was only further riled when one of the characters stated, &quot;Nothing happens by coincidence.&quot;  The action didn't impress me nearly as much as so many others, and really, there's not enough action in this movie (To be fair, I may have been slightly jaded by the delightfully entertaining The Mummy, released only two weeks earlier than Phantom Menace, and most definitely a far superior popcorn ride).  The pod race, a sort-of classic sequence now, doesn't really do it for me.  I don't know about you, but I was rooting for the kid to lose.  The four-way battle scene at the end is more impressive, but the only real thrills come in the way of the two-on-one Jedi fight that eventually results with only one man coming out alive, but this scene is intercut with other scenes of fighting that weren't particularly exciting, though had the potential to be.  I mean, that gigantic battle on the bright green field might have been more involving if Jar-Jar Binks hadn't inexplicably been placed as the general of the whole Gungan army.  I don't know about you, but I would not put the fate of a race in the hands of Jar-Jar Binks.  People stupid enough to do such a thing deserve to die.  There you have it, my (useless) opinion of Star Wars: The Phantom Menace, a movie that is certainly not awful but never attains the grand proportions we expected from it.  Though I notice much criticism toward the film these days, I clearly remember how so many fans clamored about just how incredible the film was during the movie's opening week in theaters.  Heck, the movie even had a rank in the top 250 on IMDB for a couple of months (coming as high as at least number 130).  Nowadays, I have a hard time finding anybody who will say anything other than, &quot;oh, it could have been better.&quot;  Seems to me fans just didn't want to concede the critics might have been right.  And let's face it, I think we agree with them this time."
"Doesn't make you a great film. I DO like the original Star Wars trilogy, not my favourite films, BUT they are respectable. This is just a view of mine; I'm not having `A Go' at anyone. Where do I start? Well, lets consider the special effects. These predictably are excellent, imaginative, and COMPLETELY noticeable. Ok CGI creates good aliens, spaceships etc, but that's no reason to use them at every possible opportunity. It gets so bad that you get the feeling that the real `actors', are just playing supporting roles to the CGI. The whole film feels like an advert for the Action figures, models etc that came before, and after. What next? How about the script? The original films had a sense of danger, romance and even adult(ish) humour, occasionally. But how on earth can we take so many `oops' and  `yipees' seriously? Were these in the original script? If not how in the hell could any director allow these to be improvised during filming? Not to mention ` Mr Qui-gon sir, I heard you talking about Medichlorians, I was wondering, what are medichlorians?' (The quote may not be exact, but there's no way I'm going to stick the video on to check)  &#150; reminds me of the whole `Hello, I'm Mr DNA' speech in Jurassic Park. Achh enough! And don't get me started on the simplistic rehash that is the plotline. The actors&#133;the majority of which, are fine, considering the material. The one big exception is little Jake Lloyd  - love him. I don't know if the idea of a young Vader was to be an annoying little spoilt brat who despite being a slave, show no signs of emotion or intelligence. If it weren't for the fact the script literally spells out HE MADE HIS OWN RACER etc, then it would be hardly believable. Witness the touching goodbye to his mother&#133; and the `Are you an Angel?' speech &#150; breathtaking. Nothing but praise to the other actors, they all put on a good show. The music is great and the Direction and Cinematography look superb. You can't fault the look of the film. Lucas and his team have done a good job of creating fairly believable worlds (`A long time ago, in a Galaxy far, far away' yada yada), and if the film has ONE thing in its favour, it's the design and style of the picture.  There are many memorable scenes through the movie, the Sabre fight sequence at the end being one of the best choreographed fights in a long while. However I do think that Mr Lucas (and I'm sure this isn't only MY opinion) should continue to produce (he's great at that!), but step down from the director's chair, to make room for some new blood. It's a shame that, with all the work that went into the film, the result is a soulless, commercial and standard Sci-Fi film, lacking the heart that the originals had. This could have reinvented the whole star Wars legacy, but to many has spoiled the fantasy. Lets hope that with the next 2 films, the Great Star wars trilogy doesn't become a forgettable mediocre legacy."
"He should watch Episode V: &quot;The Empire Strikes Back&quot; before thinking about future Star Wars movies. Even though I'm more of a Star Trek fan, I do know a good movie when I see one. I think Episode V is one of the best movies of all time. In contrast, Episode I has a very weak plot that relies on special effects and very annoying computer generated characters like Jar Jar Binks."
"Star Wars will always have a phenomenal impact on me.  As I child, it was the first film where I became part of the story that was unfolding on the screen in front of me.  I recall fondly Christmas morning of 1977 and opening my very first Han Solo figurine.  No sooner did I have Han and Darth out that I was enacting my own (overly) dramatic scenes between these two legendary cinematic characters.  Star Wars (and Empire and Jedi to follow) remain legendary films in my mind.  They were the creation of an idealistic dreamer, a subversive reacting to an increasingly Imperial society.  They were nothing short of revolutionary for me, both in my thinking and in my bearing in years to come.  Then comes along The Phantom Menace and all becomes clear.  Lucas has become that which he opposed those many years ago.  With Lucasfilm, Industrial Light &amp; Magic, and the (in)famous ranch where he lives (shades of William Randolph Hearst?), George Lucas *is* the empire.  It seems now he has lost the spirit of the trilogy.    Phantom Menace is technically masterful.  Effects are seemless, the pod race spectacular, and the sets beautiful.  But there is an emptiness to everything, devoid of the spirit and magic of the trilogy.  In fact, I think he made conscious choices to distance himself from the mysticism of the first three films.  He reduces one of the beautiful mysteries of the trilogy, The Force, to a biological function.  Those who have the biology for the force can mold it and shape it.  Overlooking the clear racist overtones of this conceit (The Jedi Knight; pure blooded master of the Universe!), there is a simpler problem with reducing the mystical to the mundane: it wasn't necessary!  There is no need to explain the Force or reason people are &quot;strong&quot; with the force.  The first three movies, it just was.  No explanation needed nor given.    The empire reigns.  The magic, however, is gone."
"Underneath the Jedi lightsabre fights and breathtaking special effects, George Lucas has succeeded in making a great story for his fourth (or first, depending on how you look at it) Star Wars movie. This is not just a sequel that was made because Lucas wants more money (although of course, that would be one of the reasons too), but also because he has a story to tell: that even the sickest, cruelest, Hannibal Lecter meets Jack the Ripper villain was once a cute little boy. How in the world that the cute boy ever develops to be Darth Vader, that's the story of Star Wars Episode I through III.  This is the movie for everybody, which works in different levels for different person. Kids would love the robots and the lightsabre and the wacky characters like Jar Jar Binks. Grown ups would wonder how they made that CGI look incredibly real. As for me, the top reason why I watched this movie was Natalie Portman.  Aren't you looking forward to Episodes II and III (and, if Lucas remains true to his words, three other Star Wars movies)?"
"It isn't very often that a truly original movie comes along but Star Wars was considered such a movie in its day. Usually such a movie has a sequel and, since it can't possibly be as original as the predecessor on which it is based, critics and audiences are disappointed. Sometimes a sequel is so bad that we question how good the original really was. Star Wars: Episode I was the sequel that began this process for me.  The original Star Wars (now Episode IV) was basically the classic medieval story of the damsel in distress (Princess Leia) locked in the impenetrable fortress of the enemy (the Death Star), but the &quot;droids&quot;, living robots with personalities and even neurotic paranoias, had only previously been introduced to us by the likes of Isaac Asimov. The Empire Strikes Back was vastly superior and was the height of Lucas' saga. The urge to sell out was apparently too great by the time the Return of the Jedi was written. The furry little ewoks were obviously designed to market Star Wars to children and led to an animated series. That could have been ignored if The Phantom Menace had not sunk so much lower.  I'll ignore the billions of dollars of merchandise that the market was flooded with and judge this movie on its own merit. Let's face it, everyone hates Jar Jar Binks. Why is he in the movie? To sell the movie to kids. This movie is an insult to an adult's intelligence. The hero is a small boy who wins a long, pointless &quot;pod race&quot; (to sell a video game) and saves the day by accident. Jar Jar Binks is a klutz who somehow becomes a war hero as a result of his blundering idiocy. There is even a scientific (blood) test to measure one's connection to the spiritual &quot;Force&quot;, the Brahman essence of everything. Apparently Lucas felt it necessary to dumb that concept down for us.  The saddest thing is that the original trilogy was very popular with children even before the ewoks were introduced. This a long overlooked truth that Hollywood producers would do well to learn: children will watch movies written for adults but adults won't watch movies aimed at children. A grown-up version of this movie would have brought in as many kids, but this infantile production only leaves parents wondering when the movie will be over. After suffering through this uninspired motion picture, you can be excused if you find yourself wondering if the original trilogy was really any good in the first place."
"With each new installment, the Star Wars series just gets worse. By the end, George Lucas will have squandered his original vision and have everyone wondering what the hell the big deal was about anyway.  I saw Star Wars (the first movie) when I was twelve years old, during its first theatrical release, and was blown away. Whenever I've seen it in the years since, I still am. Lucas took elements from several ageless mythologies and movie genres and wove them together, then created something completely new and fresh.  The Empire Strikes Back was a decent follow-up; darker, more ambiguous, but a good middle story for the original trilogy, and with some much-needed character development. Then Return of the Jedi came out. Just the fact that they wimped out on the original title (REVENGE of the Jedi) should be a warning. Cutesy teddy bears, irrational character changes (Darth Vader changing into a good guy? Come on...), and a distracting, three-way final battle. Ugh.  Lucas seems to be a guy who learns to repeat his mistakes rather than avoiding them. Phantom Menace has annoying, overly cute characters (Jar-Jar Binks justifiably got some bad press, but he wasn't nearly as annoying as that bratty, overly-precocious Anakin). It also has yet another three-way battle at the end, each cutaway distracting from the others. Aside from Neeson and McGregor, the performances are stilted and wooden--especially Natalie Portman's. I know she's supposed to be a hologram or something for much of the picture, but still. And the good guys win, even though we know they eventually must lose--which is depressing rather than poignant.  The biggest problem of all, though, is that Lucas is indulging in some bad post-modernist deconstruction of what is, essentially, a fairy tale. He's de-mystifying the Force into some pseudo-scientific mumbo-jumbo. And worse, he's performing some pop-psychology retrofitting of a back-story onto what WAS one of the most effective villains in science fiction and the cinema. We're supposed to buy the implication that Darth Vader became a bad guy because he missed his mommy? Oh, please--how mundane can we get?  I don't WANT to know why Darth Vader is bad. I enjoy him for the fact that he IS bad. He is--WAS--a great movie villain. In Othello, Iago is the greatest villain in Shakespeare precisely because we don't know why he's evil; it makes him more mysterious and threatening--how can you reason with the guy? Vader was like that too--implacable, unstoppable, a fittingly awesome obstacle for the heroes to fight. His personal ties to Obi-Wan and Luke only made him more frightening--how can Luke defeat his own father?  But now Lucas has decided we need to know why Anakin became Darth. Thanks, George, but I don't want or need to know. Just like I never needed to see what was behind that black mask of his. And I don't need to know what's behind yours either. Just release the first movie on DVD and leave me alone."
"This film is a waste. A waste of resources to make it, and of our time to sit through this drivel. Bad and muddled story, lame acting, dumb characters, insulting speaking accents, the worst character in film history, the worst use of special effects, etc...  What is the deal with Jar Jar ? Is he cute ? Is he annoying ? Is he racist ? Does he have a purpose ? All of the above ?  What is the purpose of the long pod race ? To get money to fix the spaceship and free Darth Vader from slavery ? Answer : To waste our time and fool people into the merchandise.   If the characters need money to save the universe, why can't they use Jedi powers to fool some rich loser into handing over whatever the Jedi's need ? And they can use that money to buy Vader's freedom along with his mother."
"I grew up on STAR WARS. It was the first movie I saw at the theatre. In 1983, my father took 9-year old Mikey to see RETURN OF THE JEDI at a midnight show in May. Over the last few years, my STAR WARS collection has recently been appraised over $7,000.  With that preface, I cannot begin to tell anyone how long I waited to see this film and how much I anticipated the release and then how disappointed I was when it came out.  I was one of those &quot;nerds&quot; who threw down $8 to see the trailer for this movie and then walked out of the theatre; hell, I just did the same thing for Episode II. I was one of the first people in line at my local theatre when Episode I tickets went on sale. I have a box in my basement full of magazines and newspaper articles for Episode I.  Tuesday, May 18, 1999 was one of the most eagerly anticipated days in my life. We got to the theatre around 10PM and stood outside and just shot the STAR WARS breeze with the other fans in line. Then they let us in the theatre around 11:00 PM. One hour to go!! Then the trailers came on: The Beach, Titan AE, etc. etc. Then the words came across the screen: A LONG TIME AGO IN A GALAXY FAR FAR AWAY. Then the music came on. The threatre erupted. I swear to god I am getting goosebumps right now just recalling that night. Then the yellow STAR WARS letters flashed the screen with a new scroll.  Why was I disappointed with this movie? One, its not as exciting as the other three. If I had to rank the movies in the order that i like them the most, it would be ESB, SW, ROTJ, and TPM. Two, Jar Jar Binks was in this movie way too long! Thank god he will not be in that many scenes of ATTACK OF THE CLONES! This film moves very slow. There are not that many action sequences other than the lightsaber fights, the pod race and a pretty lame space battle.  All this is is act one of a long story. We have to introduce the characters: Obi Wan, Queen Amidala, Anakin Skywalker, Yoda, etc. and give them an adventure. This wasn't the worst movie I've ever seen but George Lucas made us wait 16 damn years. He could have done better than this.  I am eagerly awaiting May 2002, but I am also eagerly awaiting December 18th for LORD OF THE RINGS..At least they are waiting only a year between LOTR movies...."
"As the Star Wars saga continues, each succeeding film has gotten more and more overblown with special effects and less and less concerned with plot and storytelling.  One need only compare the far superior alien creatures in the original Star Wars cantina to the muppets that sang in Jabba's lair or the cutesy wutesy Ewoks in ROTJ to see a prime example of how Lucas has altered his saga to cash in on certain focus groups.  Now it's the end of the 20th century, and CGI is all the rage.  I don't know how much Lucas spent on the computer animation for The Phantom Menace, but he's DAMN sure proud of it.  Look at the setting shots of the city planet...four scenes of computer generated hover traffic.  Look at Jar Jar Binks, a creature created totally out of CGI and concocted specifically to give 8 year olds a favorite play toy (it didn't work, BTW)  See all the battle droids, marching in perfect CGI lockstep, signifying nothing.  By the time Lucas is through, Darth Vader will have a pet Fengojuli which looks remarkably like Hello Kitty and speaks like Bubbles of the Powerpuff Girls.  Obi Wan will retreat to Tatooine, only to be taken in by the lovable CGI-created Winksnoozie tribe, a race of 3 foot high mini-kangaroo type people.  George Lucas has proven that his ego is too much, and that is why Peter Jackson has smoked him with the Lord of the Rings trilogy.  While Lucas was rewriting his latest chapter in the Star Wars marketing saga to appeal more to 14 year old N'Sync fans, Jackson was creating a solid trilogy of movies.  It is an insult to his earlier work to call this excuse for a movie &quot;the beginning.&quot;  More like, &quot;the result.&quot;"
"Well, I loved the 3 movies that was made before, but this one was really bad, the history sucked and it was very childish..  It is made for children under 7 years old so I dont know what&acute;s all the fuss about..."
"This is an awful film. Not only is it poor in itself but it spoils the  original 3 films as well by reminding everybody of the flaws in them  that we had all forgotten about. Jar-Jar Binks has got to be the  worst character in a film ever, and as for that boring Pod-racer  scene it is well, boring. This film makes me wish even more for  the Lord of the Rings film, as Star Wars is a rip off of LotR in a lot  of ways anyway."
"Based on R1 DVD  Let's see there is the democratically elected queen whose identity is so such a big secret even the members of other governments don't know what she looks like. There's a virgin birth. There's a herd of cow brained creatures who have a very high tech underwater civilisation, an evil trade federation headed by a viceroy, an inept republic run by civil servants and a smattering of WW2 jap &amp; nazi military types. Much of it makes little sense but none the less there is the Lucas touch that so few others have, namely the ability to bring truely fantastical beings to life.  Low brow sci-fi with great eye candy - kids should love it."
"Unfortunatley it took me a long time to realise that Espisode I: The Phantom Menace was poor, poor beyong all imaginable parameters.  I still hav e trouble accepting just how bad it really is.  i owe a lot to George Lucas, he provided me with 3 superb films that allowed me to wonder and imagine at the world as I grew up.  Indeed, Star Wars-released a year before I was born-was a film I watched every day for 2 years(according to my parents)  What I can't understand is how someone with such vision and ability has created something with no discernable heart, soul, emotion or cohesiveness.  I can't imagine why Rick McCallum was allowed to oversea such a mishmash of stilted, mishmassed, children orientated rubbish.  The appeal of the original trilogy is that it appealed across the ages, wheras this celluloid is merely a mis-matched collection of graphics against live action footage, and sadly the much heralded CGI graphics will look ropey in 10 years time.  Jar-Jar Binks was apparantly added as a nod to kids, but who cares when the whole film is aimed at children from 5-11.  Binks is embarrassing, crude, and even the live actors can manage to meet eye contact.  The sad thing is that I STILL try to watch this film in an attempt to make it appeal to me.  It does not happen.  Darth Maul was the only redeeming feature, yet he is already dead.  One sadly must put the blame at the door of George Lucas.  He arrogantly expects people to wait 20+ years for follow up masterpieces, yet glaringly fails to deliver.  I thought the man was a genius, yet he actually appears to be the first Direstor/Creator/Whatever who wants to replace actors with CGI, thus undermining what all his previous efforts were built upon.  I can only hope for improvement with Episode II: Attack of the Clones, but somehow, with so much to be drawn from it(the Mandalorian Battles/Clone wars, Padme/Anakin angles, MAce Windu, etc, etc) I don't think so.  Even Ewoks were more palatable to this  Maybe I'm wrong.  Prove me wrong.  Don't ever make me cringe watching any STAR WARS."
"It took George Lucas almost 20 years and all he could think up was Jar-Jar, now that`s just dumb. The movie starts out good as the Jedis destroy a bunch of droids, but from there the movie just goes downhill and doesn`t get good again until the last half-hour. Just look at the scenes, Jar-Jar ruins every scene he is in. Making Star Wars look like some stupid slapstick flick and that takes away a lot from the epic saga that Lucas is trying so hard to make it in to. A couple of more examples: The pod-race was too long and that Anakin was able to win despite getting that late start was also stupid, Sebulba whom he was racing against(the others were dead meat, we all knew that from the start)was the champion of the planet and despite all of Anakins engine problems he still beat him. C`mon, we know the force is strong with him but he`s still just a kid. And look at the end where Anakin destroys the droid control ship, he just does it by pure dumb luck. It was never that easy when Luke destroyed the Deathstar in the original Star Wars. The only good thing about this horrible movie is the Light sable duel in the end. That Lucas could make this piece of crap remains a mystery to me."
"this was the first dvd i bought, and after watching the first 5 mins i took it back and got a better film , T2  i like sci-fi films and love star wars, but this film was too much.  from ewan mc gregors acting and accent it was terriable.  yes the special effects were excellent,,this is not enough to make a movie good.  i couldnt bear the thought of owning this film so i suggest u dont either.  rent it out."
"I expected that this film would have followed (or more accurately forerun) the traditions of 4, 5 &amp; 6. Unfortunately it threw those latter ethics away (the Force is a viral infection?) for simplistic and plagiaristic scenes. I voted a 4, which would have been a 3 except for the last light-sabre duel. Very disappointing."
"The creation of Jar Jar Binks was one of the most odious crimes ever perpetrated against the human race. Not only do I refuse to give this movie a single star, but I recommend that George Lucas face a military tribunal. When he is found guilty, he should spend the rest of his life confined in a prison cell with Jar Jar."
"Wow I never imagined that Star Wars could sink to these lows.  This is one of the worst movies I have ever seen.  The plot is extremely boring - who cares about a trade federation?  The acting and writing are ridiculous - Natalie Portman and Jake Lloyd are especially weak.  Overall, the whole movie just feels like it was created by a marketing team.  I could literally picture the shrinkwrapped toy sets and video games that each scene was laying the foundation for.  I won't even talk about Jar Jar Binks.  With this pathetic attempt, Lucas manages to cheapen the entire Star Wars series.  What a shame."
"Boring.  All they do is talk.  Jar Jar is incomprehensible.  The actors are wooden and/or terrible.  The plot is byzantine.  No characters.  Since I have to have four line to post this, let me add that the writing was amateurish, and the dialog laughable."
"If anyone has read any of my comments in Sci-fi, you'll know that I just hate Star Wars (excepting the first one in 1977).   This movie proves my theory, this saga is one of those that make up a stupid story, just for let the watcher look at the little details, like monsters, space creatures, star ships, etc.   In a very personal opinion, I believe that what makes a movie great, is the fact that it marks a &quot;before&quot; and an &quot;after&quot;, &quot;a new hope&quot; did, fut the rest are just movies that you would easily forget, that got famous because of the first one.  So, if you love the saga or want your kids to shut, watch it, if you are a real cultured person, you should know what is waiting for you."
"I was hoping for a movie as good as the first 3 ones were. Sure, I got fantastic visuals... but scenario full of inconsistencies (remember when Ben tells Luke that he will go to Dagobah to meet Yoda, the Jedi master who tought him? well... Lucas now thinks that the Jedi master who taught Ben is now Qui-Gon Jinn... why this turn around)... and full of unneeded add-ons... Whe de medicloreans... did Lucas feel afraid of the religous lobbies that he had to make the Force a physical/biological phenomenon rather than a mystical one? I won't go into the bad acting of Jake Loyd or the cliches of the various non humans we meet... or of the pathetic Jar Jar, or the almost inexistent Darth Maul... And... did anyone actually feel a menace somewhere?  There were some great ideas, lightsaber fights are absolutely beautiful... but the movie lacks so much elsewhere.  Come on, George, please, don't disappoint us again. And avoid titles that sound like 1960's movies..."
"George Lucas took too much time off between movies.  He lost the fun and fantasy of the first three movies.  I found this extremely boring and just a special effects movies.   That new character Jar Jar something, needed subtitles to understand what he said.  I was extremely disappointed in this movies and it wasted 2+ hours of my time.  I won't be viewing the next two movies."
"This movie was pathetic compared to the original three.  The ideas are there, they are simply not fleshed out and used the way they should be.  I think Lucas did better when he had an uncertain studio making sure that he drafted and redrafted the script.  Also, to all the people that argue &quot;This is a kid's movie,&quot; I say that is no excuse.  First, I think the original star wars film appealed to viewers regardless of age.  Second, the Wizard of Oz, Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory, and Shrek are all &quot;kids movies,&quot; yet these were much better written and executed than this disaster."
"I feel like I'm watching someone play a bad video game.  So, therefore, I feel like I'm just watching the action, rather than being a part of it.  This movie was so expensive it makes me sick.  Is there really any point?  It's so made up that nothing is believable.  That's all I care to say."
"After all the hype leading up to its release, the Phantom Menace was always going to have trouble living up to it billing. And it doesn't.  It's not awful but by no means is it a good movie either.  There were some positives:  The lightsaber battle at the end was outstanding, one of the best action sequences in the entire series. Darth Maul was an excellent creation who looked absolutely fearsome. It's too bad he won't be around for Episode II.  For the most part, I felt the movie had the right look for a Star Wars movie. Everything seemed brighter and even more technically advanced than in the original trilogy but this is before the evil empire has oppressed the galaxy. The only things that looked out of place were the enemy's use of battle droids which I'm assuming will be replaced by evil human clones (aka. stormtroopers) in the next installment, &quot;The Attack of the Clones&quot; (what a title).  Now for the negatives:  I've heard people complain that Phantom Menace was aimed at kids yet this movie had one of the most convuluted plots that I've seen. Part of the problem is that there is virtually no introduction to the setting or characters. Everything just happens. And fast. Within 20 minutes of the start of the movie the following happens: two jedi knights get sent to resolve a dispute between an innocent planet and a trade federation that has aligned itself with a group that will eventually grow into the Empire. The Jedi Knights get attacked by robots then split up and escape separately to the planet, they reunite on the planet's surface, save the life of some unspeakable creature on the planet, visit an underwater city, gain ownership of the unspeakable creature's life, travel through the center of the planet, get attacked by giant fish and then save a princess who was taken captive by that trade federation (remember them?) we talked about earlier. By the end of the movie the viewer is left wondering what just happened.  The characters of the Phantom Menace are a mysterious lot.  The problem is that we hardly get to know any of them.  Even Obi-Wan Kenobi is still a mystery to the viewer.  The only character who gets a proper introduction and development is Annakin Skywalker. I can't decide whether the problems with the Skywalker character came down to bad acting, bad writing or a combination of both but with the lone exception of the fairly exciting pod race, virtually every scene he appeared in seemed forced. To make matters worse, Annakin Skywalker is &quot;the chosen one&quot;.  I don't know why talented writers insist on using this plot device but I pray that one day someone will arise and banish this plot device forever.  That said, Annakin Skywalker is not the worst character in The Phantom Menace.  I know it's been said before but it bears repeating; Jar Jar Binks is the worst character in the history of Hollywood.  He's supposed to be there for comic relief but he's not funny.  He's just annoying. Plus, he looks totally fake. CGI has advanced tremendously in recent years but its still not good enough to create a completely virtual character and stick him alongside live actors, expecting him to get the same kind of reaction as the &quot;real&quot; characters.  Another complaint concerns the cameos. Even though this movie was a prequel, it had the feel of a &quot;reunion&quot; movie. Instead of &quot;Brady Bunch: 20 years later&quot; it's &quot;Star Wars: 30 years earlier&quot;. Why do you have to introduce all the characters? I really felt like R2D2 and C3PO didn't belong to the story yet.  Their scenes feel contrived and should have been removed.  Overall, I'd have to say that despite the lightsaber scene, the Phantom Menace is a bad movie. Lucas tried to do way too much and the movie suffers as a whole.  I still can't believe they killed off Darth Maul and kept Jar Jar."
"After forcing die-hard fans to hold their collective breath for years George Lucas finally produced Star Wars, Episode 1, The Phantom Menace. From the moment that he directly quoted his own cliche, &quot;I have a bad feeling about this,&quot; I knew that this movie would be a phenomenal disappointment.  This movie contradicts the storyline it is meant to be a part of and constantly has elements meant to sell merchandise: The ESPN-like announcers at the Pod Race, Jar-Jar Binks, a glossed-up bad guy, cameo appearances where none should exist. There was never a mention of C3PO being built by Darth Vader, but sure enough, this story tells us that was the case. Previous Star Wars movies built upon heroic legends. This one blatantly tries to copy the Christian myth with a divine birth. Finally, there is a lack of struggle. We hear about an entire planet being subjugated, yet all we see are hoards of robots being destroyed as if they were funny toys. Finally, all the plot is seemingly in very small chunks: the discovery of Anakin Skywalker, and the rise to power of Senator Palpatine. Nothing else has major impact on the storyline of the original trilogy.  Fortunately some things were done right. John Williams was brought back to do the music. ILM produced all special effects. Ray Park was hired to choreograph fight scenes.  With the release of the title of episode 2 (Attack of the Clones), I have almost no hope left for the first three episodes. Lucas should just call it &quot;Plan Clone from Outer Space&quot; and give up now."
"Lucas should ask someone else to continue the Star Wars saga. He has only proven two things with this movie he can neither write or direct.  The story is something a five year old could have come up with, and the direction??...as far as I know the actors said their silly lines and went back to their seats. What a shame, Portman,McGregor,Neeson and Pernilla August are all great actors but in this one they are more stiff than a cardboard cut out!!  Lucas has said that he will repeat certain themes from the original trilogy in the new Star Wars. Well that he has done....that is Phantom Menace is more or less a remake of A New Hope and Return of the Jedi, and a very bad one too!! I just don't understand. The Star Wars universe is so vast, why the hell does Lucas have to tell the same story over and over again???  Jake Lloyd is the worst child actor I've seen in my life. Hale Joel Osment believe it or not lost the gig after the first audition!!!!??? How the hell could that happen??  And yes Jar Jar IS the most annoying character on screen..EVER  George Lucas should give his sad universe to someone like Peter Jackson, because he has proven two things with this movie..JACK'N S***!!"
"...that's how I feel about this review. 2533 posted reviews at this point. Sheesh! I feel at this time that any point by point review is needless with so many previous attempts to break down this film, frame by frame.  Anyway, forget all the critical nit-picking and complaining about the small details, I'll keep it simple. I loved &quot;Star Wars&quot;, I liked &quot;Empire&quot; and grew to choose it as my favorite over the years for it's maturity and &quot;Return&quot; was at first a satisfying conclusion which had flaws that became harder to ignore over the years but the film itself remains a great adventure. When the films were reissued I was ecstatic, my childhood was given a second life and I reveled in it. Which brings us to &quot;Phantom Menace&quot;, I went in expecting greatness but was prepared to forgive little flaws that might arise similar to &quot;Return&quot;.  And in the end I was disappointed.  Not because of Jar-Jar or Midie clorien 'whatevers' or even the pointless overabundance of first grade humor and bizarre plot developments. All of these I could have overlooked. In the end I just didn't get caught up in the adventure. The pod race, the space battle or the jedi fight at the end just didn't capture my sense of fun, my childlike thrill of adventure.  It just didn't work for me, I had no fun watching this 'Star Wars' film and no argument will change that. And believe me when I say I wanted to like it, and for all it's faults in direction and writing, I do give it full marks as a well produced film.  But production isn't enough and no matter what anyone says, I feel this isn't up to the standards of the first 3 &quot;Star Wars&quot; films.  This is just my opinion, I mean no offence to those who did enjoy it, and I'm not putting down anyone who did. I don't expect to like the next film but I hope Lucas proves me wrong. I would love to be able to renew my love of this series.  To Lucas I say &quot;Please prove me wrong&quot;, I want to look forward to these films again. I may no longer be a kid but the 'kid at heart' in me is still here to be pleased.  My Ego Tripped"
"Everyone else seems to have already said my opinion, so I'll just run it down real quick: 1-Acting is cold and sterile 2-Too many direct parellels to other Star Wars (e.g., Jedi dying in front of student, escaping large animal in ship) 3-special effects look cartoonish, like &quot;A Bug's Life&quot;.  Lucas and his crew spent hundreds of Million to prove that computer graphics still aren't as lifelike as shooting real-life miniature models on film (like the other films). 4-Jar Jar 5-I STILL don't have a real good grasp of what the hell is going on 6-75% of the film seemed to be a Pod race 7-Anakin making C3PO is hokey 8-The force being something of a microbe, a physical entity in the body, blows it for me.  I liked to think of it as a sort of Zen-like concept, an Eastern-religion feel.  Let go of your normal consciousness and let &quot;the force&quot; take over.  It was mystical, supernatural.  Now it is a bacteria.  Not quite as romantic.  I sincerely hope that Episode 2 and 3 are more thought out."
This is a weak start for the star wars series.  It seemed proud of itself. I think that when a movie loves itself the way this one did it is really horrible.  I thought it fitting and nice that the introductions were done and people felt sentimental.  That is it though.  People wanted Star Wars and they got it.  It is a pretty weak Star Wars movie though.  I wanted something more.  It dragged in parts and was confusing to the non die hard fans.  I must say it does get the passing grade but it is only because I am nice and in a giving mood.   Grade...5
"I would like to say that I 'AM' a star wars fan.  I loved the original trilogy.  They have 'class', which is more than i can say for this piece of JUNK.  How dare they introduce a character such as JAR JAR BINKS??!!!!! He destroyed this film. He has no personality, he is very annoying, very cheesy/corny and he looks like a cartoon! He is embarassing to watch.  Also the dialogue in this film, expecially during the space battle scenes was very basic, as if it were out of a comic book.  I can't believe George Lucas waited about 16 years and this is all he could come up with! Rubbish I do not recomment it.  Goodbye!! P.S. Damn you Jar Jar Binks.!"
"Star Wars Episode I, was an insult the Star Wars fans everywhere.  We were all very impressed by special effects, but I think Lucas went too far. With only a handful of &quot;actual&quot; actors in the movie, we might as well been watching a Disney flick (no offense Walt).  I am aware that this has been said a billion times, but what was Lucas thinking with Jar Jar Blinks?!? Jar Jar was the worst example of comic relief I've ever seen!  Was some six year old controlling Lucas?  The worst part about this is Lucas hasn't even been listening to the fans post-Episode I.  Now Jar Jar will be back to haunt us in Episode II.  Don't even get me started on the title of that one, &quot;Attack of the Killer Clones&quot;(what???).  Whats going on?  You'd at least think his support staff might have objected, but obviously they are just a bunch of &quot;yes men&quot;.  Former reviewers had written &quot;don't compare this to the old Star Wars movies&quot;.  Why not?  It is all part of the same story line! It should flow from beginning to end.  Although I suggest you go and watch it for yourselves.  Don't say I didn't warn you!"
"I'm going straight to the point here with this one. I waited three years for this crap to be released. I consider myself a Star Wars fan like the next guy but my GOD this movie is almost impossible to sit through. George Lucas talked about &quot;pushing the envelope&quot;, if only he would have meant the story. I was fooled just like everybody out there, I wanted to believe that the movie I had seen was worth the wait. To be honest, it took a year after purchasing it on VHS for the truth to come crashing down on me. After viewing it for the first time since the theater I could not believe how blind I was. The critics were right on this one...IT SUCKED!!!!...........Lucas if your reading this don't forget, don't ever forget the intelligence of your fans.....we're not 8 year olds!"
"Talk about a disappointment.  First time I saw it I wasn't in a good mood, wasn't sure if it was me or the movie that sucked.  So I went AGAIN, and indeed, the movie sucked.  Grew up on the first three, then they go and make this crap.  Hopefully with the next ones they'll consider the backlash of public opinion, they'll use the lovely and talented (forgot her name) well, and they'll chuck the kidstuff."
"This is the most dull and overhyped film I`ve ever seen. What is wrong with Lucas? Can he even direct at all? No, I don`t think so. Nothing happens in this film, the actors are stiff like carrots and the FX are quite lame. And this Jar.Jar blink,sight! He interfers so much in this film that you hope he will be shot in million pieces by some poorley datamade enemy.  This film sucks BIG! 2\10 and the point are for nice costumes and Williams music."
"This is one of those flicks I wish I could get my hands on. I see a thousand small changes that would turn this into a completely watchable classic film. How cool would it have been if those battle droids didn't talk at all, but communicated with gestures 'a la the skeleton soldiers in &quot;Jason and the Argonauts&quot; Why are there poop jokes? Why is there hi-fiving and and stupid touchdown dances? The removal of just a few stupid lines of dialogue would have made a world of &gt;difference What could have been a fine film was killed by bad editing and a complete lack of subtlety."
"Alright, here goes; ONE: this movie was obviously meant for children&#133; but guess what? Children like `Cartoons' that's right&#133; just like The Mummy Returns, or whatever, too much concentration on an annoying little brat. TWO: Dear Hollywood, just because you have pretty picture scenery that's nice to stare at does not mean that you can forget about all else. THREE the whole idea of making a movie on the childhood of Dearth Vader was a good idea (just about the only) but for that there needs to be compelling character! As in, character development, as in Haley Joel Osment (the little guy would have been perfect). FOUR: all that was left after the movie was a feeling of coldness, which matched it very well. FIVE: it is not fair to have commercial merchandize in full swing before the d*** thing even comes out! SIX: I never really liked the original Sat Wars either, too cold. I give it two stars&#133; and they are for whoever drew up the lovely pictures for scenery that should have stayed two-dimensional!  PS Jar Jar sucks, so many say&#133; ? He may have, I can't remember since every body else sucked as well&#133; did anyone actually LIKE this movie but a few brain melted kids?"
I am confused.  I am reading all these comments on how awful this movie was and how everybody was disappointed.  Then why does this terrible movie have a 7.1 rating?  Who out there gives this movie a 10???  If this was the first Star Wars movie to come out this series it would have bombed and this movie would probably have gotten a 4.0 rating.  If you don't like the movie don't give it a perfect score.  Twenty one percent of you out there thought this movie was a perfect 10???  Are you on crack?????  This is absolute lunacy.  Why does Rocky IV get a 3.8 and this get a 7.1. Enough said.
"What a let down, this film could have been so much more. It seems that they spent all there time and effort on special effects and making Jar Jar Binks annoying and not on the story line &amp; characters. The first three films had their own atmosphere and appearance whereas Episode 1 has no atmosphere and the usual glossy appearance."
"I should have recognized the re-releases of Episodes IV-VI for what they were: a warning of things to come.  The re-realases didn't add anything of substance, and in fact detracted from the original pictures.  Phantom Menace did an even better job at this.  To put excellent actors like Ewan McGregor and Liam Neeson in this picture and not allow their artistic ability to shine is a awful shame.  If they had removed all Jar-Jar's lines (and preferably Jar Jar) and instead allotted the recovered time to Ewan and Liam to develop their characters this would have been a MUCH better film (maybe even good)!  Some will argue that the purpose of this movie is to set up episodes II and III, and therefore doesn't warrant a decent plot or chatacter development. I disagree, every movie should stand on its own, just as they did in the original series (and yes I am counting Empire).  (Quality of the movie) divide by (hype) equals my rating of 1.  Visually stunning, but an awful movie."
"The original Star Wars Series came out, and made bundles of money.  Then the THX Revised edition of tapes came out, and were advertised as being available for the &quot;last time&quot;. I bought the original tapes. Lucas makes bundles of money.  4 Months later (After my purchase) the &quot;Special Edition&quot; is released...with new scenes and further cleaned up. Lucas makes bundles of money again. (So much for the tapes being available for &quot;the last time&quot;)  Along comes the Phantom Menace....with glaring inconsistencies with the original Trilogy. The movie itself was great, but not as a prequel to the original trilogy. If it had been presented as a parallel story...sure, but it hasn't. I feel betrayed, that Lucas is writing in situations and events with no regard for his original vision.  Consider the midichlorians, not once are they mentioned in the original trilogy. Considering that Ben Kinobi is present in The Phantom Menace, and presumably survives through to feature in A New Hope, what happens? Why doesn't he test Luke for midichlorian presence?  Lucas went off the rails here. These prequels were meant to have been in mind at the time of the original trilogy, but this is obviously not so."
"This movie it's for everyone who like to go to the circus!!! Get it? I think that when the Episode II come out, it will explain a lot the whole fantastic George Lucas's story, because it's the beginning of a complex story. All that confusion with whose father is, who is the father of Luke... all the explanation starts here, in this confused movie. But it has it explication of it confusion: The mysterious looking of the young kid to the princess; the demoniac expression of the kid; the exaggeration centered on the kid(he is so strong, his Force is terrific, he is The Chosen, he is everything...). This is to show us his power that he will use... My final opinion is: we can't watch only this movie unknowing the rest of the story, otherwise we'll think, like I said at first place, that this movie is a silliness! This is an Explanation!!"
"I enjoyed the obviously well done FX and some of the characters were well acted and the settings were cool.  However, the story was childish and predictable a lot of the time.  &quot;Gee whiz Obywan, do you think I'll be able to use a light sabre one day like a neeto keen Jedi Knight like you&quot; {say in ridiculously cute childish voice}.  This is not a true line from the movie, but it may as well have been.  Why don't we raise the story level and character development in the next one please Mr. Lucas, at least to a teenage level.  Adults do go to see these movies in the hope of seeing some character development and a story worthy of their money and not something that was created with the hidden agenda of developing characters that will make for good toys and figurines and Happy Meal box additions."
"I really have no idea what a Star Wars virgin would think of this movie because I have no perception of that viewpoint; The Trilogy is like a religion to me.  My review of The Phantom Menace is mainly for those who recognize the number in my username (2187) and not for those who call me &quot;a geek.&quot;  I hated this movie, but I am ready to back up my argument.  I am also ready to make a few arguments in favor of this film, for as an aspiring filmmaker myself, I would want constructive criticism, not unmerciful bashing.  The main reasons I hated this movie are 1) it doesn't even compare to The Trilogy, 2) it's kind of boring, and 3) Jar Jar Binks.  Some may say that TPM had way too high expectations, too much anticipation, too much to live up to, etc.  So what?  That's just the way it goes; we (the fanatics) had high expectations and TPM should have and could have lived up to them.  But it didn't.  Star Wars lives as the number 2 box office seller ever for a reason.  There's no reason George Lucas couldn't have made TPM just as good.  SW had a simple, easy to follow plot with exciting battles and colorful characters.  TPM had a complicated, confusing plot with dull, predictable battles and flat, simple characters.  The makers of this movie were trying too hard to impress everyone.  Too many special effects make them not special anymore.  The computer graphics could have been good but they were overdone and ended up looking fake.  The Phantom Menace is boring because it lacks emotion.  Anakin was too young; he should have been a teenager and a good actor.  Then we could have seen some real passion in his eyes.  Liam Neeson was pretty good, a believable Jedi, but he should have talked about the force more and not those weird midi-chlorians.  The force is what makes Star Wars so brilliant, and it was only hinted at in TPM, which is backwards because this movie is supposedly where it all begins.  And Anakin not having a father?  That's taking it a little far.  He's not magical; he's just the one who supposed to bring balance.  And Queen Amidala got on my nerves because she had no personality and Natalie Portman sounded really weird talking in such a low voice.  Ewan McGregor was good as Obi-Wan, but I'm biased because I love him.  The greatest flaw of all was Jar Jar Binks.  I swear I would have liked this movie a lot more had he not been in it.  He was brainless, annoying, served no real purpose in this movie at all, and he looked like a cartoon.  The least they could have done was have an actor in a costume; a computer graphic is not a character.  You couldn't even understand what he was saying half the time.  I hated him so much I could have pulled out my hair and eaten it.  He just ruined this film for me.  He made this movie painful instead of entertaining.  We already have C-3P0 and R2-D2, two of the greatest sidekicks ever created; we don't need another one, let alone one with no redeeming qualities whatsoever.  So what got me through this movie?  Number 1, the music.  John Williams' score lives up to the expectations by far.  The song that plays during the fight between Qui-Gon, Darth Maul and Obi-Wan is absolutely amazing. Thank goodness George Lucas stuck to one tradition: one of the most talented composers to date.  Another thing that I liked was the introduction of R2-D2 and C-3PO into the saga.  R2 saved the day as always and meets 3PO for the first time; that was a great part of the story.  These two should have been in the movie more, as they are trademark characters of the Star Wars series. Also, as mentioned before, Neeson and McGregor held on to the remains of the true Star Wars spirit left in this movie.  But why were their light sabres different?  They had to change that too?  Overall this movie was a disappointment to me.  Many have said that the two episodes to come will explain the confusing plot and make The Phantom Menace seem not so bad, but that is not acceptable.  All three movies of The Trilogy fit together as one, but they also stand strong individually with no extreme explanations needed.  TPM should be the same.  Lucas and crew knew what they were getting into with this project, and they should have tried harder to make this movie more like the originals we know and love, and less flashy (it gave me a headache after a while).  However, I do hope that Episodes 2 and 3 learn from the mistakes of The Phantom Menace."
"Far below the standard of episodes IV to VI, the Phantom Menace failed to impress on just about every possible level.  After half an hour or so I found myself admiring the scenery in the background (which was admitedly quite good) not exactly the sign of a gripping movie!  I'll be interested to see how episodes II and III handle Darth Vader's turn to the Dark Side..."
"I found this movie to have many many  possibilities, but did not meet my expectations. This movie could not hold a candle to the original 3. I found the accents to be insipid, and culturally insulting. I found Jar Jar Binks to be annoying and an insult to the entire movie. Where  in the original 3 movies dialects were brilliantly created and much thought and time went into them, I found a lack of creativity, and depth in this movie.  It almost seemed that Lucas sold out to meet the needs of the &quot;norm&quot; instead of doing what he had such a gift for, creativity, and fresh ideas to push our imaginations to the absolute limits. How sad. On a lighter note, I found the characters of the queen, obi-wan, and Qui-Gon to be interesting and well thought out.I saw much potential in their characters. I think if Lucas had put more time into depth of story, and less time into flashy effects, the movie would have been much more successful. It is sad that in this day in age we have to find movie enjoyment in big showy spectacles, instead of using the best vehicle for that... our imaginations."
"I will keep this short and sweet.  This movie is terrible.  It completely alienates about all the fans from the original trilogy, and simply aims at selling new toys/video games to children.  The only people I found who weren't completely appalled with Jar Jar Binks were kids under the age of 12(young kids love him for some reason).  Hey Lucas, thanks for explaining what the force is!!!!  Way to make good actors look like hacks!!!!  And this thing took 16 years to come up with???  I don't think there is one redeeming quality about this movie.  A solid 1 out of 10."
"I would be embarrassed for George Lucas if I did not believe the deficiencies in this film were a result of his greed to sell Star Wars toys to a new generation of consumers.Jar Jar Binks, a child actor who cannot act,a screenplay written over a weekend,and a weak effort to use special effects to hide how bad the movie was.I suppose the Ewoks all those years ago were an indication of what was to come but I had blanked their existence from my consciousness.How much money do you need Mr Lucas?Are you far enough ahead yet to return to movie making in time for Episode 2?If not I boldly predict Episode 3 will be direct to video."
I would love to write an essay on how bad this movie was but I won't waste your time. It just was terrible everything about it. I cold not find one single thing I enjoyed about it at all. It just was terrible. If you haven't seen it then don't unless you enjoy watching robots act like people and people act like robots. I'm never watching another Sci-fi movie again in my life. If you saw it and liked it then you must have a very tiny brain like you're pal Jar Jar.
"And not very good. Filled with lousy acting, bad dialogue, video game  special effects, and some bizarre racially inappropriate lines- Jar Jar  Binks, I think, will go down as Lucas biggest mistake- this Star Wars is  the least of them all. Hopefully Lucas will get back on track with the  next one, because this one left much to be desired. Even the die hard  fans I went with were let down."
"This film was ludicrous.  Jake Llyod, I know he is young but man he was bad.  I felt sorry that they let him look so bad. Wasn't anyone trying to help the poor kid.  The actors all seemed bored.  Ewan McGregor seemed to be the only one doing his job.  Natalie Portman was also decent I must say.  I'm sure everyone has heard all of this before.  But I really do want to give Ewan kudos and I hope the next one is better. Maybe he should get naked.  It couldn't hurt."
"I can't believe that this film came from the same man who brought us American Graffiti and the original Star Wars trilogy.  I know almost everyone in the country was very disappointed in the final product and I will admit that much of that was due to the amount of anticipation toward the film.  But much of the disappointment came from the fact that is simply wasn't as good as the other three installments.  The Phantom Menace was severely disjointed and lacked any real direction.  I myself, though I won't consider it the failing of the movie, wondered at the point of Jar Jar.  The film screamed marketing at us even though this was probably the most bulletproof film to ever be released.  There was no way this movie was not going to make money. Yet it seemed to many fans EP I was simply a ploy at marketing toys, cola, and toothbrushes.  For allot of people this story line was holy, especially the story line of Anakin and Obi-Wan.  What we wanted to see were relationships and the eventual failing of these relationships.  What we got was a short glimpse at who Obi-Wan might have been and a longer than necessary glimpse of who we hoped Anakin wasn't.  I don't attribute this to Jake Lloyd because I feel that it was Lucas' writing that simply didn't recognize the character study that should have taken place with Anakin. Also, I know Ewan McGregor to be a wonderful actor in both comedy and drama, and his part in EP I was dull and lacked any real sense of who Obi-Wan truly was. I think perhaps with a different script both of these characters would have shined a little more.  Overall I was disappointed as were many, many other people. What I was left with was a sour taste that remains today.  Frankly I am much more excited about Lord Of The Rings than I am EP 2 and that makes me sad. For more years than I can count I had been waiting to see this part of the story, and I was let down.  I do hope that EP 2 &amp; 3 will be better (it is a good sign that Lucas had another writer look at the script and make changes) but I will hold on to the original trilogy as an endangered species. Because, folks, they just don't make em like they used to."
"I gave this movie a 1, even though I am a total Star Wars freak.  It is one thing to be disappointed but quite another to realize that Jar Jar Binks is the stupidest and most horrific thing I've ever seen in my life, on or off the screen.  Here's why.  I got into writing mainly because of George Lucas.  Not only does he betray me and his other loyal fans by going against his own teachings (that special effects should only enhance a story, not be the story), but he tries to explain Force-sensitivity as being an effect of a person who has an unusually high amount of &quot;midi-chlori&quot; (mitochondria, for those who don't know the real life equivalent).  The problem is that doing so eliminates the sense of fantasy and of fate that the original trilogy had.  Even I know that George Lucas is incapable of sustaining straight science fiction movie, let alone hard science fiction, so why even bother trying?  What made the original trilogy so great was the magic, that weird feeling Lucas was able to tap into that makes us feel like children again on the living room rug, six inches from the TV, staring up at the Saturday morning cartoons or sci-fi serials--no thoughts about getting eye cancer or what we'll do when we grow up.  It's idyllic.  It's escapism.  It's a little campy at times. But there is something vital in that magic--innocence and hope.  Something more Yellow Brick Road and Emerald City than laser-tasers or giant spaceships or computer-generated characters could ever hope to achieve. Something I hope Lucas recaptures in time for the sequels."
"Good race scene, bad acting (especially by Samuel Jackson), a very uneven movie. I can only hope they don't bring back Jar Jar Binks for any more of these fims or I might just do the unthinkable, skip a star wars movie."
"Phantom Menace is the weakest of the series. Over the last 4 or 5 days I have watched the entire four films over again. Here's my objective reasonsing behind my opinion. First, two things that I will not hold against this movie or Lucas. 1) It is impossible to follow the original trilogy, especially after 16 years. Expectations combined with the grossly overdone media hype pretty much sealed Phantom Menace's fate as a dissapointment. 2) I'm sure it is very difficult to SPECIFICALLY write a movie as part one of a trilogy and have the story make any real sense. While Lucas has always claimed that A New Hope was envisioned as the start of a trilogy, I just don't buy it. The ONLY aspect of New Hope that lent itself to a sequel was the fact that Darth Vader didn't die.  Here are the big problems with Phantom Menace that were never problems with the original trilogy. 1) Lack of direction. While the CGI shots were all gorgeous, and the sets and locales very nice, the actors were all very wooden and appeared bored. While directing was never a strong suit of the original trilogy, at least it wasn't a liability. 2) Lack of character development. Some might say this is due to lack of direction, but I think it's due to a fairly weak script. In A New Hope the main protagonists really pulled you in and you were interested in their struggles. In Phantom Menace, the characters were just too shallow. Anakin was VERY unconvincing, due to a combination of horrid dialouge and wooden acting. Obi-Wan wasn't even needed in the film at all until the climax. The characters in Phantom Menace simply didn't inspire any great emotion. Something that you cannot say about A New Hope some 24 years later. 3) The BIGGEST fault in the film and something that is DIRECTLY against Lucas' own views. SFX that take precedence over the story. That should be the tagline for Phantom Menace. The story is very compelling, deep and interesting for about 20 minutes total. The rest of the movie is simply padding for the next blockbuster CGI overload. The Pod Race scene and the journey to the underwater Gungan kingdom being the two biggest offenders. Sure, these scenes look great, but both could have been cut down by at least half and the movie would have been just as good. Another example is Jar Jar. While upon repeating viewings, he gets less and less annoying, being annoying isn't my biggest fault with him. My biggest Jar Jar issue is that Lucas forced him on us. It's as if he said, &quot;Maybe if I put JarJar in 85% of the scenes, the audience will forget he's a fancy computerized cartoon.&quot; Of course this horribly backfired. The majority of the audience found Jar Jar annoying, therefore concetrating on him more, which made him look that much more like a cartoon as opposed to being just another character. Sure CP30 was annoying here and there in the original movies, but you never thought of him as a man in a suit, he was always a character. I quickly wrote off Jar Jar as a computerized Looney Toon only put in the movie to fall over himself. Lucas never pulled him off as a character. (The other CG characters were much more convincing however).  In my opinion, these are the three major faults of Phantom Menace that place it squarely on the bottom of the Star Wars movies. None of the original three films had any of these same faults. That being said, I still thought it was an enjoyable movie overall. I don't share the love it / hate it mentality of many of the reviewers here. As a stand alone film, I would give it 7/10. Here's my ranking for the Star Wars films.  Episode 1: 5/10 Episode 4: 9/10 Episode 5: 10/10 Episode 6: 8/10 (NOTE: I thought Episode 6 was only 7/10, but it gained one point for the final space battle. That scene simply hasn't been equalled by ANY movie in the last 18 years)"
"I thought 'Remo, unarmed and dangerous' was the worst film ever made, but I was wrong!  Why George, WHY??? I went to see the movie twice at the cinema, the second time just to confirm that my eyes hadn't deceived me the first time, sadly they hadn't."
"An advantage with a film is not to know the plot from start to finish.  I mean, at least 99,9 % of those who watched the film knows that Anakin Skywalker will soon become the evil Darth Vader.    I think that they have to do something different the next time and not think that the people will just come because of the first three parts. And i surely hope that Samuel L Jackson will be a bigger part of part 2. I think that Ewan McGregor and Liam Neeson were the only good thing with this film.     The special-effects surely is great but you cant base the movies story on special-effects and I think that George Lucas is making these three extra-films to earn some fast money without thinking about the movies story or acting.    Nathalie Portman is one of the worst actresses I&acute;ve ever seen since Sophia Coppola in Godfather part 3, she is so wrong in the queen-role.  An actress like Christina Ricci would have been much more believable in such a important part, but I think that we just have to see Portman in two more films.    And for heavens sake, dump C3PO and R2D2, they were almost funny in the first film from 1977 but since then they are... I cant find words for it..."
"I loved the original Star Wars films. I am still a big fan of Star Wars. When I first watched  Star Wars Episode 1:The Phantom Menace, however, I was dismayed by what I saw. Jar Jar Binks (in my opinion) is disgusting, grotesque, and he destroyed the entire movie. Perhaps what disturbed me the most about the new Star Wars film was that it lacked originality and creativity.  Liam Neeson read his lines as if he were attending a funeral. I missed Harrison Ford, and I was constantly looking for a character in the new movie which I could identify with. The original Star Wars films had a heart; you were constantly rooting for the good guys (or for the bad guys). The new Star Wars film was full of empty platitudes.   If I had to give George Lucas one piece of advice for his new Star Wars film it would be: REMOVE JAR JAR BINKS FROM THE NEW STAR WARS MOVIE AND CREATE FRESH, NEW ORIGINAL SCENES WHICH WILL EXCITE THE AUDIENCE.  I also have some advice for John Williams, who composed the soundtrack for the film (P.S. John Williams is my IDOL and my HERO. GOD BLESS JOHN WILLIAMS. What would the world be like without him?)  Here is the advice for Mr. Williams: INCORPORATE MORE OF THE ORIGINAL MUSIC FROM THE ORIGINAL TRILOGY. The pod racer scene was perhaps the most exciting scene in the movie. The actor who played Anakin Skywalker seemed too young and it seemed to me as if he was reading his lines.  Please, Mr. Lucas, re-watch the original Star Wars Trilogy, and then review Star Wars Episode 1.  Perhaps you will see what was missing from the new film.  I will always be a fan of the original films, but I want to see another Star Wars film which I can add to my list of classics."
Jar-Jar Binks You were a bore You had us gnashing our teeth and pulling our hair Simply not nearly as good as its predecessors. Nuff said.
"I couldn't believe this film was supposed to be related to the 3 other Star Wars movies. It nauseated me. It made me want to weep at the sheer horror of what they had done to a once-great story. The plot was frighteningly weak, the characters utterly shallow, and the much vaunted special effects were jarring and out of place. In all, I found this movie to be the ultimate triumph of style over substance; a lot of pretty lights and catchy people, with nothing to back it up."
"There are two kinds of people - those who love Jar Jar Binks and those who hate Satan Incarnate. Needless to say, I'm one of the latter. It is impossible to believe that anyone who wrote the first three movies could write this tripe. They went through all that trouble to paint Darth Maul's face intricately and promote him heavily in the trailer and then he spits out two lines and is dead. His last fight scene is the only thing worth watching."
"I grew up with Star Wars.  Everyone my age did.  Everybody feel in love with it. It was truly the first and only movie that everyone loved.  Young and old.  Male and Female.  Democrat and Republican (GO BUSH!).  However, many people in my grade growing up seemed to out grow it.  It's sad really, many people my age think of Star Wars as a kids thing.  And a lot of it is.  The toys make it appear to be childish.  But the Star Wars movie (I consider all 3 originals to be one movie)  Were spectacular, no matter who you were. So, I don't think it is necessary to say that I had high hopes for the prequel.  Well, their is a good side to Episode one and a bad side to it, a dark side and a Jedi side.  I'll start with the positive side.  The fun of Star Wars is here.  The special effects are beautiful and glorious.  They are truly breathtaking.  My favorite feature of the movie is the music.  John Williams is a genius, period.  No discussion.  He just is. His music is SO emotional and beautiful.  Many of the movie's scenes will make you feel like a kid again.  The lightsaber battles are brilliant.  The sound is worthy of an Oscar.  I mean, that pod racing scene is spectacular! So far, I think I have established that the movie is gorgeous and fun to watch.  Well, on to the bad.  Number 1:  Characters.  I haven't seen characters this poorly done in a long, long time.  Even truly bad, un-fun movies have better characterization than this.  A lot of it is truly sad.  Obi-Wan is the biggest let-down.  We don't get to know him, at all.  There is no characterization for him.  I was wondering what the hell George Lucas was thinking!  How can you just forget to give at least SOME depth to one of the most important characters!  I mean, I don't care how much money you have, that is just wrong!  Forshame Mr. Lucas!  Number 2: Bad acting.  Don't get me wrong, not all of the acting is bad. Natalie Portman gives a great performance; in fact the best of the movie. Who ever plays the future emperor Palpitine is also great.  But one person, one little boy, take all of that away.  Of course I am talking about the kid who plays Anikan &quot;Darth Vader&quot; Skywalker.  That kid is terrible.  I heard that Lucas was going to use the kid who appeared at the beginning of ALMOST FAMOUS, who has some great acting ability.  But, Mr. Lucas decided to go with this kid because he is more &quot;cute&quot; looking.  Well, there is more acting problems.  Not much more, but some little tid-bits.  Liam Nelson is &quot;okay&quot;.  It ain't great, but at least it's better than that half-assed job he did on THE HAUNTING.  Ehhhhhhh.  It hurts to think of that movie.  The Obi-Wan guy never gets a chance to act, so no comment on him.  Samuel L. Jackson (the greatest actor under 50) is wasted. COMMON SAM!!!!!!  Ah, I was so made to see him not being used.  Now, Ray Park is also wasted.  that was the guy who played Darth Maul.  I think the man is a good actor.  He has never been given a good role, but he is going up in Hollywood, instead of the opposite direction, he only speaks a few times, which is sad.  I wish that they had made this movie at least an hour longer for more TALKING!!!  Why do these big time, hotshot directors who love pretty special effects have this pet peeve against talking!!  It is not a bad thing!!  It actually can be highly entertaining!  Eh hem, now that I'm calm, on to Number 3:  the OVERUSE of special effects. Obviously, this idea of OVERUSE never entered Mr. Lucas's mind.  The CG scenes are great, don't get me wrong.  I think the movie is beautiful.  But some things in this movie just seem to be there for no reason other than to look nice.  Like those &quot;shields&quot;.  Okay, starfighters have shields.  Okay, I can live with that.  But swamp people?  I know they built their technology around force fields (those air bubble cities) but common, this is too much. And the whole &quot;Going through the planet's core&quot;.  In a word: UNESSECARY. Oh, and Jar Jar Binks should be killed in Episode 2.  I don't care if that is unnecessary, the people want that thing dead so Mr. Lucas, to make the people happy, KILL HIM PLEASE!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!  Lastly, Number 4:  Targeting.  This truly upsets me over all the other bad points.  The other Star Wars movies were made for everyone.  There was NO target audience.  You hear me: zero, not there, didn't exist.  This movie does have a target: CHILDREN!  This movie is so obviously targeted at kids that it is ridiculous.  It makes me SOOOOOO MAD!  Well, I'm getting a bit tired, so I think you got the point on that issue.  Conclusion:  Episode One is a bad movie that is enjoyable.  Everyone SHOULD see this movie at least once.  Hell, why am I saying this?  Of course you've seen it.  Everyone in the freaking country has seen it.  And if you haven't, you obviously haven't seen the other Star Wars movies, and you don't really care either.  Well, I liked the movie.  I know it's bad.  It's bad because the plot is weak, the characters are weak, and Jar Jar is more evil than Janet Reno.  But see the movie.  Do it to appease your inner child.  Have fun for once in your life!  Be a kid again!  And to quote a great philosopher:  &quot;That's all I got to say about that.&quot;  -  Forrest Gump."
"Disappointing, to say the least.  This is a children's movie.  By children, I mean the adolescent audience who is used to being pandered to, handed every bit of plot of a silver platter, and hammered with stereotype ad nauseum.  Or, in other words, children under two.  There is a significant difference between a children's movie and a family movie.  This movie was a lot like an over-funded episode of Teletubbies, with a splash of attention-deficit-disorder, MTV-generation flash.  Special effects are a means, not an end.  Superman is cool because he can fly, and special effects achieve that level of suspension of disbelief. Superman trailing a column of fire as he whizzes across the sky to crash into a plane, which explodes in a stock-rendered two-dimensional wave explosion is just silly.  Raise the stakes.  Keep in mind that the entire universe is under threat of martial law from the Empire.  This movie should be about the coalescing of power.  We should see armies building, power plays made, political gambits taken, betrayal, murder, bribery, and lies.  Taking over the universe is a dirty job, but someone has to do it.  I think Star Wars only has two real stories in it.  One is the creation, hubris, fall, and redemption of Annakin Skywalker.  The other is the oppression of the people, birth of rebellion, and triumph over evil.  This movie was set too early, and treated the subjects too lightly.  The acting was as good as you could expect given the writing.  Lots of talent, but no backbone.  I would be ashamed to recite the dialogue in public.  Conclusion?  The Star Wars IV - VI trilogy was an epic, operatic story. Now, with the full resources of George Lucas, Skywalker Sound, Industrial Light and Magic, and the acting talent of Neeson, McGregor, McDiarmid, and Portman, this movie is the best you could come up with?  I don't think so.  Star Wars, Episode 1 supercedes films the likes of Waterworld and Titanic as &quot;The Best Movie Money Can Buy&quot;."
"This long-awaited installment of the Star Wars saga has proven to be a dud. After all the trouble I went to for tickets to the 12:01 am screening on the release date, I felt very ripped off at the end.  The movie is BORING. Lucas cast some of the greatest actors of our time, but apparently insisted they not act, as the performances of Neeson, McGreggor, and Portman are their flattest to date.  Perhaps if Lucas had treated this film as a complete story rather than the first of 3 installments, as he did the original Star Wars, he would've made an interesting picture."
"If Phantom Menace were to be an original film, not a sequel, not a prequel, but the first of it's kind, this movie would have been thrashed and trashed as much as Travolta's folly Battlefield Earth. The reputation of Star Wars made this film. I  will not excuse it of it's horrid production however. You can serve a beautiful cuisine with elaborate colors and garnishes, but if it tastes like cardboard, what's it matter?  First of all, I can understand that Star Wars as a genre is a silly sci-fi film. Was it meant to be serious? Probably in Lucas' mind but even Mr. Harrison Ford states that maybe someone other than Lucas should be penning the story. Of course the best  interpretation of an idea is the one who thinks of it first. However, George Lucas excels in bringing eye candy to us all. The aliens, the scenery. NOT the story. The dialogue is the prime killer of this film. When I hear Qui-Gon praise Obi-wan that he will one day become a great Jedi Knight, and a much more wiser man one day might I add, after being scolded and led around like a clueless student, I shudder. What has Obi-Wan done in the film that deserves that remark besides an absurd attempt to foreshadow? Maybe that one sword fight in the end? Qui-Gon is the MAIN Jedi of the film. Obi-Wan, well he was there because he had to be there. The Queen, maybe its her character but shes reading lines from cardboard. Padme? I like her, but what's so unique about her? She can shoot guns and dodge guns like her bodyguard? Who needs the bodyguard then if she could do all that. See the end of the film when they try to retake Naboo and you'll see what I'm talking about. Speaking of, I found this absurd as well. If the Queen is the decoy, the bodyguard. She seems to be fit to rule as well. Why would they refer to her, talk to her, in the beginning of the film when NO one but her trusted Council is there. Does Padme not trust her own people? Or is she unfit to rule so they consult with the bodyguard instead.  Alot of people loathe Jar-Jar Binks. I don't abhor his character, he's an alien. So, some act peculiar to us standards. However, I do have someone I totally detest in the film. Anakin Skywalker. Why did they envisioned Jake Lloyd as Anakin? So he could play this cute little kid who makes light of every situation and cracks out the lame lines that they give him? I feel so much pity for the dead pilots of the assault on the Trade Federation Controlship. These are, I assume, trained pilots risking their lives to save their planet. Obviously I was terribly mistaken as they were actually saved by this little kid who somehow maneuvers better than any of them shouting out, &quot;Now this is pod racing!&quot; or the classic &quot;Let's try spinning, thats a good trick!&quot;. Or how about firing those torpedoes and that disabled the entire controlship. How fragile and flimsy of the aliens that an internal implosion would destroy it. Granted that MIGHT have been its power source or whatever, WHY was it exposed near a docking bay full of ships that can shoot torpedoes? Was that the force guiding young Anakin? Give me a break. Last but not least, the android army. Giving them ranks was, um, for lack of better term retarded. I don't feel like going into why. I will say they are plainly cannon fodder. The Jedi are good, but not the way Qui and Obi displayed that they could disable 20 androids at once. How slow are they? Heaven forbid even in one scene during a heavy fight, an android had its back on Obi-Wan looking like a lost idiot. Any guesses what happens?  Star Wars doesn't deserve all the hype, and it shouldn't. The Box-Office says otherwise, but that's what hype gets you, refer to Mission Impossible II please. The accolades will show you what the film is made of. Sure it's full of neat scenery, great special effects, and an impressive score with one extremely annoying Parade song, but what is all that without good dialogue? Phantom Menace may as well be one of the greatest silence films of all time if you hit the Mute button."
"It's always nice to be able to tell if the actors are walking on a real set as opposed to a computer generator environment.  Considering the visual mastery of the originals, this new addition to the Star Wars anthology provides computerized visual effects that prove unpleasing to the eye.  The new characters featured in this overly-hyped flick are just as unsettling as the visuals and at times they are down right annoying.  I feel safe in saying that there was not even one character that the audience could truly empathize with.  In conclusion, with poor visuals, characters and character development, and a shaky plot, this Star Wars prequel is a disgraceful outcast from that galaxy from a long time ago, far, far away."
"The acting is stale at best. The script is the worse in all of the Star Wars movies. The Effects are the best in the series, but that doesn't make a good movie. And the bad guy is hardly even in the movie. And that horrid alien thing Jar Jar Binks over whatever his name is. Makes me want to spew. This wins the award for the most overrated piece of c**p. 3 out of 10 (Just because the Effects are great)"
"Compared to the other Star Wars movies, The Phantom Menace was disappointing. Judged on it&#39;s own merits, it was boring, bland, cheap looking, badly acted, annoying, and I wasn&#39;t even impressed by the supposed incredible special effects especially after seeing The Matrix.  The entire Star Wars franchise could quite possibly be the most overrated entity in the history of human civilization. It isn&#39;t that profound. Move on. It&#39;s just a movie.  The Phantom Menace was a pretty bad movie with little cultural significance.  Ha ha"
"Phantom Menace contains none of the charm or spark of its predecessors, instead using special effects to hide its lack of substance.  It seems that recently, all big-budget action-fantasy movies are SO obsessed with giving the audience an eyeful of jaw-dropping special effects that they forget to give audiences things to ponder.  Such is the case with Phantom Menace: it is more interested in making extravagant use of special effects technology than providing a tight, well-written, script that is equal to the previous three films.  This film obviously caters more to children with its carnival-esque atmosphere than the other Star Wars did.  I would rather see Luke talking to an animatronic Yoda in the damp, foggy, mystical forest world than see Jar Jar Binks making a complete ass of himself in a CGI-created underwater world.  The contrast between this and the rest of the series is so great that one could easily skip this film and just wish for something much more concrete in the next installment.  The performances here are not at all impressive or heartfelt; characters are thinly-scripted, and spew one-liners.  Big name stars are placed in miniscule roles, yet they don't add anything to the story; in fact, they seem to be there to distract from its flimsiness.  Example: &quot;Oooh, look, it's Samuel Jackson,&quot; in a scene that could have easily been deleted from the film.  If you're looking for a fun fantasy ride full of eye-popping visuals and clean, wholesome family fun, you could do a lot worse than Phantom Menace.  Die-hard Star Wars fans will certainly be disappointed with what seems more like an insult than a prequel to the rest of this awesome, pioneering series.  5 out of 10"
"I would just like to apoligize to those of you who read my first review of this movie. I was under the influence of a Star Wars high, that rampant lie was the result. I have seen Episode1 since then and be rest assured, I've changed my vote from a 9 to a 2. I guess it was just me going, LOOK! Pretty special effects!!!. I've now come to realize that cool sfx alone certainly don't make a real Star Wars movie. The origional trilogy had so much more than just SFX, which is why they're still great today when the effects are dated.  That poor fool Lucas is trying to hold his entire movie up on special effects. He doesn't understand that great effects are only great when they're used to support the plot, not the other way around. Some examples of well used effects are The Matrix, Dark City, Fight Club, Gladiator, the older Terminator 2 and many others. Those came to mind because they used so many effects. Episode1 overdoes it, they put the effects everywhere and sacrafice everything else for that. Shame on George Lucas for trying to palm that off as a Star Wars movie.  At least I ripped on Jar-Jar though. Later I realized that it's quite a big disturbance when that clumsy freak is a main charactor. The only way George Lucas can redeem himself is if he sucks that freak out of an airlock in the first 30 seconds of episode2. The oppening text should start to scroll and a ship flys by and jarjar flies out, choking to death.  I probably will see episode2, but after all the hype is done with. I'll be sure to sneak in so I don't feel ripped off again. If the movie still sucks in 30 minutes, I'm leaving."
"Star Wars - Episode 1 is by far the Star Wars saga's most boring film. It is more of a child's movie than a &quot;real&quot; movie like episodes 4-6, and they must have made the pod race just so they could make money on the game. Not to mention Jar-Jar Binks. He is the one destroying the movie completely. OK he could be funny if you saw him in like one scene, but he is always ...argh... throughout the whole movie.. agh.. Still... &quot;The Phantom menace&quot; is a real Star Wars movie. That is why I give it three out of ten instead of one out of ten."
"I must say. I hated this movie. I hate Star Wars. It was so over-hyped. I Can't stand Natalie Portman, and you want to kill Jake Lloyd. Niether can act. Liam Neeson and Ewan McGregor were wasted....very sadly. Samuel L. Jackson? Come on! Lucas, can make a movie. This movie is loved to pieces. But for a person who is looking for a movie with tone, characters, plot, development, direction, writing, and acting. Avoid at all costs. Oh yeah, give Darth Maul the Oscar. He showed the most drama depth in this movie."
"My roommate and I refused to go see this in the movie. Nothing hyped that much could be good and besides, we heard it was bad. Well, finally, at long last, we borrowed a copy of it on videotape and we are now very proud of ourselves for being so on target.  This movie is an example of a lot of things that can go wrong in movies. Primarily it's an example of moviemakers being out of touch with their audience and with the notion of what makes a good movie. It's also an example of special effects becoming a total distraction, with F/X people seemingly obsessed with doing things just to show off. The dialog is often ludicrous and the characterizations are extremely shallow -- guess they were worrying about effects, not plot. This movie also employs a lot of bizarre, mismatched accents (including ones that are difficult to understand) and on top of that, they lay on the ethnic stereotyping very thick (are those guys holding down the Naboo supposed to be Japanese?)   On the positive side, I think the guy playing Obi-wan was very good. I loved the sets/stages used for the capital of Naboo -- looked like the Hagia Sophia. The pod race had awesome effects. I thought the Jedis' spacecraft was very sleek and nice. Overall, though, this movie sucks like a rotten egg."
"But not much worse, as this movie is totally lacking in plot and good acting, with several minor exceptions (Liam Neeson for one).  What annoys me most is the reliance on special effects to hide the fact that there is no plot cohesion whatsoever, the characters simply talk for a while, have an action scene, then go somewhere else to talk and then have an action scene.  Another feature that is most aggravating is the fact that the lead villain and my favorite character, Darth Maul, gets all of three one sentence lines and about five minutes of screen time.  Although I'm a fan of the original series and have read most of the books, I must say that this movie has the worst plot ever to be associated with the Star Wars franchise.  Overall I give it  a 3 of 10."
Nice special effects. Too bad the rest sucks so much. It's stuffed with Hollywood cliche's and the story (what story?!) is pretty much the same as stories of the old sequels combined. Jar Jar (probably for the kids) is really annoying.
"Entertaining at first, but the more I thought about it afterwards, the more superficial it seemed.  The plot is really quite linear, character development virtually non-existent, and the bad guys barely say a word.  Really, we all expected more after 12 years, George.  It's almost as if it was done by an imposter."
"No one can argue that the special effects in this movie are outstanding. The plot, however, is arguable.  Written for a ten to fifteen year-old crowd, lots of &quot;cute&quot; things were written into it that only take away from the original trilogy.  It is only fair to tell you that I loved Star Wars and the Empire Strikes back, while I thought Return of the Jedi was only good, because of the &quot;cute&quot; Ewoks.  Little Ewoks could not take down some of the mammoth Empires war machines with ropes, but I digress.  If you have a teenager, take them to see the movie.  If you are like me and the EWOKS were too cute, this movie will be too cute as well.  One great use of this movie is to test out a home theatre system."
"This movie had cool special effects... The score by John Williams was brilliant... I loved Darth Maul... The story...ughh...it sucked...but the special effects were cool!!! I've already been threatened with stoning at my job by all the Star Wars fanatics who cherished this overblown piece of poo... I could'nt debate with them! IT WAS STAR WARS HENCE IT WAS THE GREATEST THING EVER! AND IF I DIDNT LIKE IT,I'D FIND MY EXISTANCE IN DANGER!!! What is it with this fanatism! The film was mainly a two hour commercial for its franchise! Not a film that can be enjoyed, truly, over and over again my rationalizing film folk like myself!!! Why cant they see that George Lucas has turned into the motion picture anti christ!!!He's Big Brother!!! Ignorance Is Strength!!!AGHHH!!! Wait, someones' knocking at my door... one moment, I...  After much thought I have realized that the previous review was foolish because I found STAR WARS:THE PHANTOM MENACE to be the greatest Motion Picture of all time and worthy of every award and bag of coin presented it. Therefore I detract my derogatory statements of Mr. Lucas for I've realized that he is brilliant and we are all fortunate to have experienced this wonderful film and the Star Wars franchise that has newly spawned from it. I also believe Jar Jar Binks to be of pivitol importance to the fowarding of the storyline...And, the special effects are cool too.  4 out of 10"
"The 3 things I remember most from childhood are my first trip to Tiger Stadium, the time live monkeys attacked the family Gremlin at African Lion Safari, and the first movie I remember seeing: STAR WARS. They were all magic moments, and I was hoping to maybe relive a bit of my childhood by seeing the new Star Wars movie. But being a slightly cynical adult now, I'm afraid to say the magic is gone. I'll say some good things first. The light sabers sounded the same. The spaceships all roared the same way I'd remembered. The special effects and production design were as amazing as expected. But those things aren't what made the original Star Wars films some of the greatest films of all time. It was the magic moments. Like Luke looking forlornly at the tatooine sunset; the moment he switched off his targeting computer and gave away to the force; Yoda raising the X-wing out of the swamp. And so on. Some great moments in film history.  The greatest crime in the Phantom Menace is there is not a single moment in the film where anything remotely resembling that incredible feeling of magic happens. The scenes that made you shiver in awe as a kid. Which probably explains why Anakin Skywalker grows up to be a galaxy conquering murderer. We see his childhood up there on the screen, and not a single memorable moment occurs. - AK71  Note: This film contains some of the worst dialogue I've heard in such a big budget film. Over 90 percent of it coming from a computer generated frog whose name I won't mention."
"It's a shame people were so eager to enjoy this film simply because it was a Star Wars film. They defend it because George Lucas can do no wrong  - but he can, unfortunately he did it with the most anticipated film of the decade. Some set pieces regenerated the joy of a great star Wars - you know the ones, The Pod Race, the light sabre battle at the end - and they were great scenes. But between the clunky dialogue, a brat like child and the most unfunny alien since Mac and Me I was left feeling pretty empty. It's like watching someone who had no real understanding of what makes a Star Wars film and trying to replicate it. It shouldn't have been - but it was. The thing is Lucas CAN direct and write, but here after a break from the fold he is struggling. It takes more than amazing special effects to pull an audience in - hasn't Hollywood learned this yet? The site of a lone droid walking alone across a vast desert in the original is a more evocative image than any of the CGI cities and landscapes of TPM. It just seems more real somehow, and pulls the audience in. The Phantom Menace needs special effects, of course it does, but they were in every single scene - and thus took the awe away for the next one. The amount of CGI was overbearing, squashing the story and characters. Oh mumble mumble groan groan.  However, this film isn't hurting anyone. It is a children's film as everyone points out when any flak is directed at it. But a great film has universal appeal, not just at kids. Adults should get a giddy sense of childish joy watching a great 'kids' film - like Toy Story. Lucas repeatedly said the first film was a kid's film, but it was very different - again, it had Universal appeal. That's why it has lasted and, say, Power Rangers have not.  I'm sure you'll like it - you probably will, but on a basic  level it's just not quite Star Wars."
"George Lucas sacrifices story, theme, character and relationships in favor of wildly lavish production designs and overwhelming special effects.  The movie is entertaining enough; the key pod-racing scene is a brilliant set piece; Liam Neeson's leading performance is excellent; the character of Anakin is original, enormously appealing and beautifully cast in the person of Jake Lloyd; the designs are gorgeous if overstuffed and the special effects are state-of-the-art.  But the movie is nearly ruined by its most remarkable technical accomplishment: that intergallactic hybrid of Roger Rabbit and Step'n'Fetchit, Jar Jar Binks.  Most of all, its thin story lacks any of the mythic richness of the first trilogy, and the characters, with the possible exception of Anakin, are barely introduced as paper cut-outs compared with the characters of the first three movies, and their relationships get no more interesting than the over-obvious effort to foreshadow the future of Anakin and Queen Amidala.  Still, there is cause to hope that in the next two movies Lucas will turn enough of his attention away from his special effects to give full-bodied life to the new chapters of his great cinematic epic."
"Like most every Star Wars fan I waited with breathless anticipation for Episode 1.  George Lucas had hinted for years that he actually had 9 movies in mind when he did the first triology and I could only dream of how amazing they would be when they were finally completed.  Well, the dream is definitely over.  Phantom Menace was just that - a phantom of itself.  the Star Wars universe has become one of the most richly defined sci-fi venues thanks largely to the efforts of some superior writers (I speak specifically of Timothy Zahn and am excluding Kevin Anderson).  I guess I got spoiled by them because I was expecting dialogue and plot along the lines of what has come before.  The acting is not the problem but Lucas' dialogue is just plain awful.  From the incessant chatter of Jar Jar to the stale interaction between Anakin and Padme there are no memorable lines or scenes here (at least ones that involve dialogue - the lightsabre duel is absolutely incredible spoiled only by the fact that we a forced to watch 2 other battles that we don't care about while it is going on-arrrgh!! I would have liked this movie more if the last 20 minutes were just the 3 way lightsabre duel between Obi-Wan, Gui-Qwon and Darth Maul!).  Compared to the first three the whole premiss behind this movie seems awfully thin.  Why are we supposed to care about a trade embargo on some unimportant planet?  This is Star WARS isn't it?  We (or maybe just I) got used to grand battles, sweeping ramifications of the actions of a few important individuals and generally feeling like we were witnessing something important!  I know, I know Lucas is just setting up 'atmosphere' for the next two movies.  Well I don't like shelling out my money for 2 and half hours of setup.  Maybe when the other two come out (in 5 years....**sigh**) I won't look so harshly at this one, until then...."
"Without a doubt, this is the worst Star Wars movie in the series and quite possibly one of the worst in its genre.  Take away the Lucas brandname, the star-studded cast and the overworked special effects, and you have an extremely poorly written, totally incoherent farce that carries an underlying theme of racism throughout.  The beauty and mystique of Star Wars has been wrecked by introducing half-baked concepts into the storyline, such as 'mediclorans' being the origin of the Force.  PLEASE!!! This is EXACTLY what the Highlander sequels did to the original movie.  As I watched the conclusion to the battle between Obi-Wan and Maul, I could not help but stare in utter disbelief.  The outcome is totally nonsensical and if you look closely you will notice a MAJOR editing error in the scene.  Shame on you, George Lucas!  Please quit while you are ahead and leave the series UNFINISHED!!!!"
"The first Star Wars movie can be seen as a metaphor for the rebel filmmakers taking on the evil empire of Hollywood. For the rebels, telling a good story was everything. In Hollywood, marketing ruled. Only in Hollywood would filmmakers do dumb things like these: Designing a scene to be turned into a video game. (The pod race.) Putting in a character solely for comic relief. (You know who!) Writing a story that's driven by action, instead of by characters. Star Wars was the work of a true storyteller. The Phantom Menace was ruled by merchandising. George Lucas has crossed over."
"I so looked forward to this film. It was so disappointing and perplexing how it could have been completely ruined in the hands of such a supposedly competent director.  The acting was absurdedly stilted and unnatural, directing confusing, the editing was even sloppy. The first half an hour was simply boring. I couldn't help wondering when this movie was going to start telling me something interesting, and showing me some characters I actually cared about.   The script was a shocker. Lousy character development (nil), contrived and uninteresting plotline, if plotline you can call it, boring dialogue and no real dramatic and suspenseful development. If this was a student script it would be sent back pronto with a 'complete overhaul' instruction attached to it.  The two Jedis spouted the most inane stuff at each other, Jake Lloyd was bratty, Natalie Portman was frankly bewildering in her delivery and her portrayal, and the only interesting fella in the whole damm thing was Palpatine. Jar Jar was annoying but at least he was more alive than the humans in the story.   The first trilogy was wonderful storytelling and had just the right amount of conscious popcorn in it. It was fun. In this travesty 22 years later, George Lucas has obviously had a brain fade and tried to do something Deep and Meaningful. Forget it George. Go back to popcorn which you are good at, and leave the serious stuff, at which you are abysmal, to others."
"Its funny... Everyone walked out of that theatre totally forgetting what made the &quot;star wars&quot; series what it has become: a quirky cultural icon that appealed to generations on multi leveled platforms and continues to go strong. Even though many people just bought into the hype, talking to their friends in conversations that had that hinge of desperation in their voice, that they really felt _obligated_ wanting to like it so badly, so they did. &quot;George Lucas can do no wrong&quot; should be running through our pop culture like acid in our drinking water for a few years now, considering there are two more sequels on the way.. and I wouldnt be so afraid of these sequels if &quot;lucasfilm&quot; was more aware of the very large mistakes they made in the overall discomfort and blandness of TPM.. It seems they seem to be under the disillusion they made a film worthy of the labeling of both themselves and the general public of being &quot;loved&quot; or the like. When someone is overly critical of the smaller facts like that the character development was almost non existant, that what would have been good minor characters like Jar Jar Binks (I should not even have said that now everyone will think I'm one of _those_ bandwagon type jumpers) would have made great smaller appearances but were left to carry the weight of a main character, where other characters like- lets say Darth Maul, were left with only a few lines and some elaborately choreographed fight scenes...There was little conflict of interest in the film, there was little of much of anything interesting at all. Just a lot of most likely abusively expensive special effects work and a soundtrack fine tuned to sound great when hooked up to the proper theatre system, or better yet, the comfort of your own home..  I did not like this film, I did not hate it. But It seems I'm on the side of those wasckly critics who have been bombarded by the fans, for bombarding the movie with what? Opinions, people. Get over it. I know I have.  Oh and throw your television and radio out the window. Lets go out and live.."
"The &quot;Phantom Menace&quot; makes an interesting comparison to the &quot;South Park, Bigger, Longer, Uncut&quot;.  One film (South Park) while having incredibly profane dialog, does have a plot, character development and a moral lesson. The other (Phantom Menace) has wooden acting but overflows with special effects and seems to say slavery is a natural condition and should not be stopped."
"Episode 1 was missing something Empire Strikes Back had...A Great Story. I hope before Lucas writes the next episode he takes another look at Empire Strikes Back and remembers its really all about the characters and not the special effects.   As much time and effort they spent on the special effects on this movie The Matrix seemed to pass them up. The Matrix was new and fresh and I might add took all the Oscars this yr, 4 in all and Episode 1 went home empty handed.(also I would like to add I hated the Jar Jar character)  True, Episode 1 made over $400m but 20yrs from now I think it will be remembered as the least favorite, Episode 1 was proof that if you don't have special characters no on will care about the special effects.  The Empire Strikes Back had both!"
"This has got to be the worst letdown in history. Yar yar Binks is, yes annoying and although I know that I'm not the first one to say so it has to be stated. Annakin is annoying, not as in bad actor or his dialog, but as in ridiculous actions. He could probably take care of the entire empire at the age of ten. And what I feel is the worst is that it feels like Mr. Lucas threw in some eyecandy/cool scenes like the racing scene and the fighting scenes and just shut his eyes as hard as he could regarding the fact that the rest of the movie sucked infernally. That is exactly what Star Wars did not use to be about. But I do have to add that Darth Maul is damn cool and Miss Portman is equally cute. Hope he shapes up when making part two and three."
"Little baby greedos! Farting camels! A happy, cherubic Darth Vader! Cheerful alien sidekicks.  Darth Vader's childhood should have been something more out of Omen than this crap, but Lucas needs to hit that crucial 8-11 year old age bloc, and here it is."
"Being an avid Star Wars fan since the age of seven (22 years), and eagerly awaiting the prequels, this was as a huge disappointment. I get a strong sense that Lucas has grown both softer and greedier with age, and this movie is only a soft and childish shadow, without the feeling of mystery and adventure Star Wars once had. Even though the signs were there already in Return of the Jedi with the soft, cute and cuddly Ewoks, I was hoping for something less childish with the prequels, and the anti-climax was the muppet/freak show at the pod race where i got a strong feeling that the main purpose was to squeeze in as many &quot;funny&quot; characters as possible for the multi billion dollar action figure market, I guess the old enthusiasts doesn't spend enough money to be interesting enough to keep satisfied."
The structure of the plot and especially some characters are not well developed. If you have already seen the classic trilogy could be disappointed....but it's good for children of the 2000. We have gained in computer descriptions but we have lost in depth and in immensity of the history....
"I love watching this movie on video cause i can fast forward past Jar Jar. That really means 80 percent of the move then Ohhh No!  What a let down, i dont know how anyone could say the movie is great or brilliant, but then again everyone is entitled to their own opinion. Obviously aimed for the younger audiance in comic relief.  How do you explain a full viewing audiance cheering the opening Lucas Logo when the film opened, and when the film ended not a sound except people in their seats just trying understand what had happend.  Dont get me wrong, i love the trilogy. I thought Jedi was a little dodgy, but entertaining as well.  Phantom Menace did not live up to expectations. I am not going to go into why i did not enjoy this film.   I would like a Starwars film to be in the formate of Braveheart or Gladiator."
"It struck me, after I finished watching the &quot;first&quot; episode of Star Wars, that it reminded me of a pilot for a tv-series, although more advanced technique and better actors. It was the same kind of uninspired plot, too &quot;thready&quot; if you know what I mean. It's more about learning to know the characters that show up in the &quot;later&quot; episodes, than being told an interesting story. And Jar Jar Binks: I really hated him! Watchable, but mostly for Star Wars-freaks."
"There's a very simple reason why the acting was &quot;bad&quot; in Phantom Menace.  It's not because the actors involved are poor or without talent -- just look at the people involved.  Liam Neeson.  Ewan McGregor.  Natalie Portman.  All three of them are extremely talented individuals, who have a tendency to put everything they've got into a movie.  No, the true blame for how bad this movie is lies with one person:  George Lucas.  You can see it in his other movies -- everything which he's directed, the acting is poor.  This is because the man has no directing talent.  His ideas are solid and imaginative, but his execution of them is lousy.  I only hope that the second and third episodes return to the quality of the first two movies... and yes, I'm excluding RotJ for a reason.  It simply wasn't as good.  Maybe if we're lucky, someone else will direct.  Doubtful, with Lucas's overinflated ego, but possible.  My rating: 2/10.  And that only for the impressive duels, generally impressive costuming, and raw potential (however unused) in the movie.  And remember, genocide of Gungans is not a bad thing."
"What a disappointment!!  How can you respect a baddie (Darth Maul) who dies in the first film??  Vader nearly lasted all of the original trilogy - now that is a real baddie, the secret is NOT to kill them off.  The characterisations are also no where near as strong as the originals, I found myself not really relating with any of them.  This has nothing to do with the acting, which on the whole is pretty good (and let's face it Mark Hamill was no De Niro).  Jaja Binks becomes the main focus of the comedy, making it much more slapstick and childish compared to the dry humour of Han Solo and the cheeky banter between the two droids.  All in all, this is a poor film and does not deserve to have the title of Star Wars."
"I am a big fan of science fiction and the original star wars trilogy but this just didnt really cut it.  It seemed to much geared towards children which is apparently what Lucas wanted.  I didnt find the acting too bad, sure Anakin may have been annoying but Luc was also annoying and whiny, especially in A New Hope....  &quot;but i wanted to go to the toshi station and pick up some power converters&quot; hehehe  Amadala and the Jedis were good,  especially Liam Neeson's character. I was really disappointed at his death at the end. I would have liked to have seen him in a later episode. JarJar was a pain but mostly because he was too cartoonish, acting silly and always getting into trouble.  Although the animation of him was groundbreaking you could still obviously see that he wasnt real, reminding us again and again that the movie is not real.  The bad guys just werent there enough. Darth Maul was a really awesome evil dude but he was barely even in the movie.  The biggest probelm i have with this movie is the plot. I know that more will be explained in upcoming movies but there is things that i just dont understand. Some things that come to mind like why would all the battle droids be linked in such a way that they were all powerless when the control ship was destroyed?  What happened to all the ships in the blockade anyway? At the begining there was many many of those federation ships around the planet but at the final battle there seemed to be only one. I would wonder why Qui Gonn didn't dispear when he died, but i suppose that will be explained later. (i hope)  It was also kind of funny to see higher technology  then in the original starwars trilogy despite the amount of time passed between the two. In the original trilogy, instead of droids, the federation has to use puny human stormtroopers who can be killed in one shot, armour and all.  The final light saber duel was incredibly awesome and redeems the entire movie in my opinion.  It was funny to see ET at the senate gathering."
"I can't say that I didn't enjoy it but a lot of things could have been changed. First, Jake Lloyd, bad choice, he was just bad, he was annoying and not even cute. Next, okay, I know, it is all computer made, who cares, we don't need an endless pod racing scene or useless computer animated characters to prove it and Jar Jar, shut the fudge up. Finally, I think it was a little too made-for-kids.  Okay, that's enough bitching. Now for the good parts. I liked the movie because of what Star Wars is. To me, Star Wars is light sabers fights and intense moments between good and evil, that is the memory I keep from when I was watching Star Wars the first time when I was about eight. For these reasons, I liked the movie and I think that as a part of a trilogy it is going to be good."
"Having seen the TPM three times now my opinion is that it was a disaster of a Star Wars film. Shockingly bad in parts, I believe the TPM has now seriously damaged the story of the prequels and infuriated many of the fans of the original films who expected to see a far superior film.  The pacing of TPM was erratic. The film started far too fast - this was Episode One - where it all began- we needed an opening scene to remember - one that said &quot;this movie is going to be one of the greats.&quot; (**Spoiler Alert**) But before we could settle into our seats Qui Gon/Obi Wan were already on our screens battling with their lightsabers while green aliens (The Viceroy- see later) engaged in confusing banter.   A few minutes later having survived the forest scene and met that idiotic fool Jar Jar they're swimming towards an underwater city. Lucas wanted to cram so much into the 2 hours that it backfired and most likely left many viewers disoriented and lost. Silly music unnecessarily accompanied some of the scenes - an attempt to create a sense of emotion. Many directors these days appear to favour this strategy- sometimes silence is by far the most effective option.  The Characters: Qui-Gon/Obi Wan: Lucas didn't develop them enough and they seemed cold and wooden (probably due to Lucas' direction rather than the actors themselves - who did well.) Anakin: Huge mistake committed here - basically the kid was far too cocky and self-assured such that it was difficult to like him. If Lucas had made him more vulnerable/insecure and introverted - it would have worked a lot better. One never feels that this is the future Darth Vader. At no point do you feel he is in danger (e.g. pod-race scene) and later on when he takes off in the fighter and destroys the ship (btw: this makes a mockery of all the missions of the previous films - I mean a 10 year-old kid taking it out by himself - ridiculous.)  Jar Jar: This ridiculous character almost ruined the entire movie! Whenever he opened his mouth I cringed in embarrassment. I thought &quot;George, what have you done?&quot; This gungan idiot with his incomprehensible dialogue and childish slapstick was a disgrace.  The Viceroy: These guys were important characters as they were central to the plot - but they too were pathetic. They could have been much more sinister if they were human. Instead they were green cowardly weirdos with &quot;Charlie Chan&quot; accents.  The only &quot;alien characters&quot; who were any good were Watto and Sebulba. Previous characters from the original movies (Jabba/Sand People/Jawas) were thrown in for the sake of it. Also Darth Maul needed to be in this a lot more - we learned nothing about the Sith.  Great moments: Lightsaber duels - brilliant and any scene Darth Maul was in. Terrible moments (and there were many): Two-headed pod-race commentator/ kids talking/ Sand people behaving like a bunch of mischievous adolescents/seeing Mrs Jabba the Hut (with breasts)/ any scene Jar Jar was in.  I hope Lucas can get his act together for Episode II - with serious plot, more character development, less computer animation and oh yes- more Star Wars theme music."
"The sun is out the birds are singing, summer looks like it's just around the corner and I feel great.  All of this puts me in a sufficiently generous frame of mind to give this film 5 out of 10.  When will film makers, and the less imaginative members of the movie going public, stop making and praising films on the basis of &quot;fantastic special effects&quot;.  Without a decent story line and character realization there is no point in churning out this rubbish other than to keep the merchandising wagon rolling.  Ja Ja Binks was pointless and unfunny, apparently insulting to many people and worst of all he actually looked like a special effect. Yes he was a tribute to modern SFX technology but he LOOKED computer generated  Even Ray Harryhausen's creations were more convincing thirty plus years ago.  Ewan McGregor wasn't too bad and Natalie Portman put in a decent performance but somebody should have told Liam Neeson that the cameras were rolling because he looked as if he was hanging around waiting for them to start.  Anakin Skywalker? They're trying to tell me he's going to become Darth Vader? Vader is supposed to be terrifying not annoying. There was nothing in the character realization to tantalize us with prospects of a darker future. Yes I know this is only the first of a trilogy but by the time they got to the pod race I was hoping the pretentious little git would crash and burn so that the story could move on at last."
"This movie, while OK, fails in one major respect:  It's attempt to add something for the kids, added items that most adults find irritating  Also, looking back, &quot;A New Hope&quot; seemed to be targeted at the16-30 age group, while this one seems aimed primarily at elementary kids.  One final note:  This segment also seems to have the least dialog and most time filling eye candy FX of the series."
"Well, I was generally disappointed with this film.  It had started well enough, the usual Star Wars fan-fare and scrolling intro to get people in the mood, but too much time was lost in the middle with a stupid pod race.  Really, the two Jedis should have just made an appearance at the race and observed young Anakin to be good with the force and then take it upon themselves to train him.. the plot of having to raise money for a Hyperdrive was pretty poor.  The use of CGIs was very badly done I felt.  There were too many CGI graphics used and the overall effect was poor - realism, is supposed to be conveyed to an audience, the fact was, the CGIs looked like CGIs and this should not be the case.  It would have been better to see actual models used as in the Classic Star Wars films to be used and then CGIs applied over the top of them.  I hope that George Lucas goes back to his roots for the next two films.  The Jar Jar Binks character is completely annoying - due to a bad choice of characterization voice. A more sensible sounding voice would have made it more enjoyable. The grammar of the language used throughout this film is not very Star Wars and more your average-speaking 20th Century american would use, which is far from accurate when trying portray a civilisation in a galaxy, far, far, away..   The lightsabre fights were okay, but why did they call them light-swords? Has George Lucas forgot himself? The end sequence similar to that of Star Wars IV - A New Hope, why copy it? It would appear some more original thinking is required for episodes two and three.. if anything the ending should have been more dark and depressing.. it was promised that these three prequels were in fact going to be a more 'darker' feature, obviously, Hollywood has decided otherwise.  The only other saving features were R2D2, C3P0 and The Emperor character which he'll soon become in the next two films.. apart from that there was very little to call Star Wars, a disappointing 6 out of 10."
"I was totally disappointed with this movie, as I had heard so many good things about it. Even with two of my favourite actors (Neeson, McGregor) starring in it, I couldn't even finish watching the movie.  Sure the effects were dazzling, but the script and acting were pathetic.  There was no character building at all - it seemed that more emphasis was placed on the special effects. What a waste - this movie had so much potential, but it was all lost out to the big special effects."
"Anyone who doesn't quite understand that comparison and actually has seen Highlander 2 has already been sucked in by the bad acting, poor directing, and abhorred story line of this pathetic farce of a science fantasy movie.  Our only hope is that Lucas doesn't direct Episode 2."
"O.K The most anticipated film ever was going to be hard to beat. Still Phantom Menace was a lot of fun, and if it was not for the masterpiece that was the Matrix then Star Wars would have been better received. Two Thumbs up to JW again for a great score. Still for Episode 2 a few changes  1. NO JAR JAR BINKS  2. HAVE THE THE NEXT BAD LEADER SAY SOMETHING."
"Alright, before you stone my blasphemous mouth shut, let me just say that Episode one is bad not for the actually movie but what it does to the other three movies.  What was so great about Star Wars was that it started in the middle of a story. It was left up to your imagination what happened before.  Now he is showing you. Ruining the mystique to everything.  Obi Wan was a crusty old knight. You knew very little about him but that didn't bother you cause Alec Guiness brought history into the role. Now you learn he was some little punk with a pony tail. Suddenly Obi Wan isn't so cool.  Darth Vader was the ultimate Baddie. Guy in black with a mask and penchant for killing heroes. You knew he used to be good but now he is the pinnacle of bad. Cool. Now you know he was a goofy little punk. Ruined.  The force. Cool way of the samurai-magic thingy that no one used except the hippest cats. Now you know it is a concentration of microscopic lifeforms. Ruined.  I guess George thinks everyone is a moron and we can't imagine the rest of the story ourselves.  What I think the problem was. He got older and richer and richer and richer and lazier.  He forgot his maverick sensibilities that he had on Star Wars.  He defied the conventional sci-fi genre with Star Wars and created a new ideal for all others to be measured by. Now he is just following his own mold and reinstating conventions he once set out to brake.  Not only was this movie boring because of its &quot;do nothing new, just do it better&quot; attitude, but it takes away from the first movies. Now you can't watch Alec Guiness without thinking Ewan Macgregor doesn't look like him. You can't watch Darth Vader now without thinking of him as a snot nosed kid. Now you can't think of the force without thinking of some parasitic thing called midichlorians.  I only hope they never do another Indiana Jones movie cause Spielberg, Lucas, and Ford have all lost their touch.  Anyways, I could go on and on about the things wrong with Episode I, such as hidden gimmicks like the E.T. creatures, but I won't because I know the Star Wars freaks want to commence their flogging of this rambling infidel.  But before I go I would just like to say.  RETURN OF THE JEDI SUCKED TOO!  Whoooohahahahaha"
"Being a Star Wars fan since the first film, I can't help but feel let down by Episode 1. George Lucas having Industrial Light and Magic to play with, produced a film that was more a video game than a film. I still don't understand why I should be excited by the pod race sequence. For all its special effects it was boring.  I also hated the fact that they tried to explain what the Force is. Instead of leaving a mystical vagueness about the Force, they started talking about mediclorons or chloroforms or whatever. And if I remember correctly they also used second rate sci-fi terminology about symbioms and other crap. Lucas failed to understand the power of our imagination. Not everything has to be fed to us.  And for all the special effects, the spaceships seemed more fake. They were shiny like they were in a dealership.Had they never been used before? The models in the previous films looked more real even in their simplicity.  Finally, I really hope that we see some grown-ups in the next movie. No more kids and Jar Jars pleaseeeee!!!"
"Having seen the original three in their first release I was disappointed by Phantom Menace.   The graphics and special effects were stunning, but the plot was very thin and transparent.   Darth Sidious was a sad waste of a great looking bad guy.   Not a patch on the menace and style of Darth Vader!"
"I'm afraid this latest episode (even if it is the first) continues to follow the downward trend of the entire series.  Star Wars was fresh, exciting and unpretentious.  The Empire Strikes Back was less fresh, naturally, but no less exciting.  By the time of The Return of the Jedi, however, a distinct lack of originality had set in: the big climax: blow up the Death Star- Again! Worse, was the fact that the battle scenes were reduced to slapstick with those stupid Ewok-Teddy bear things, which completely undercut any tension these scenes might otherwise have generated. Lucas and the gang were obviously attempting to broaden their demographic base, to the detriment of the story.  The Phantom Menance is hands down the worst of the series so far.  Return of original director George Lucas is no help; in fact the acclaim he's received from the original movie may have contributed an inability to think critically about this project.  The plot is both bland and complex and shows definite signs of having been written by committee.  Our hero is a young boy rather than a young man, thus underscoring the fact that this movie is being pitched to infantile sensibilties.  Once again the battle scenes are suspense-free.  In one scene war is waged with water balloons between the crypto-Caribbean stereotype fish people and the nerdy robots.  I mean, who really cares how it turns out? Young Anakin was (will be) far more engaging as the ominous Darth Vader. I was only young when I saw Star Wars, but Vader was actually intimidating. There's no comparable villain here.  Darth Maul just looks like some sort of WWF creation.  The only amusement here was watching for the video game tie-ins. I'm pretty sure I spotted them.  Sadly it just goes to show that the series, which was always a commerical package, has lost anything that made it transcend its commercialness.  I know I'm being hard on this movie, but it's hard not to be critical when it could have been so much better."
"I know I'm gonna get it in the neck, but this one bites. Not only was it edited to death but it features two of the most wooden top-billed performances I've seen in a while: Jake Lloyd and Natalie Portman. My fingers are tightly crossed hoping that in Ep 2, Anakin will be too old for Jake to play him. Otherwise, HELP...I don't think I'll be able to sit thru 2 more with him leading the pack. At least Rick(y) Schroder was cute and natural in &quot;The Champ.&quot; With Jake sporting a perpetual scowl like someone keyed his favorite landspeeder, no wonder Anakin turned into the biggest baddie around. And Natalie looks great but any stiffer and you could use her for siding. I hold out hope for her in future SW chapters because I know she can do better.  Was it just me or were Liam and Ewan on the verge of breaking into a Marx Brothers routine throughout the movie? They're both wonderful--elsewhere--but what do I remember about them in this flick? The friggin' wrist communicators...  So, you ask, what did I like about it? John Williams still RULES, and those roll-up destroyer droids are cool. My fave thang? The blum-blum-BLAAAAM of Sebulba's pod racer plowing through the awesome mutated landscape like a Harley-Davidson on mega-steroids. No one but Lucas can hybridize the Southwest and Africa and make it look farrrr out, man."
"I can't say that this was a bad film, but I can't say that it was good either. If I had not seen Episodes IV, V and VI and hadn't expected some connection with that universe I would, perhaps, have liked it more. But it was mainly an excuse for showing off some (I have to admit, very good) special effects. Taken alone, it would have been more enjoyable, but more along the lines of action movies than science-fiction ones. Frankly, I had expected more of this one.  Although the actors are good ones (I like Liam Neeson and Ewan McGregor), they fail to build strong characters. But I think this is the screenplay's writer fault, and not theirs. I cannot refrain from comparing Sir Alec Guiness's character and Liam Neeson's (I think they were supposed to be alike)... I needn't tell you which one I think was best. If someone asked me what kind of man Han Solo, or Luke Skywalker was, I would have pretty much to say... they were complex and convincing characters - although Luke was a (bit) naive. But for the life of me I cannot  say anything even mildly interesting about any of the two main male characters in Episode I.  So - too much action and not enough plot. Why did they have to spent a full 15 minutes (maybe a little more, maybe a little less) on that silly race with Anakyn?! What was so fun about that?! Computer games are better, at least you get some action yourself (kind of...)  Jar Jar Binks is indeed funny and there is need for such characters. Even the fact that he is clearly a commercial addiction doesn't take that away.  And... am I the only one to have realized only halfway through the movie that the princess and her ...servant, or whatever she was, were one and the same? I don't think the director intended to hide it for so long... it was the makeup's fault.  Also, there were no conflicts between the characters whatsoever. Remember the duel between Luke and Vader at the end of Episode V? It was more that just a fight. It was a psychological war between two strong personalities, a clash of wills. It really sent shivers down my spine. There was none of this in Episode I.  And the ending? Quite sudden. I was still expecting for something else to happen.  Well, perhaps they make a better job in Episode II. I am willing to give them one more chance."
"Well,I travelled to New York to see this movie.New York was great but the movie was only good! Episode1 is nothing against the original Star Wars from 1977. A Star Wars movie without Harrison Ford is like Germany without beer!!! I hope episode 2 will be better!"
"As we look back at the movie triumph that was Star Wars: A New Hope, many of us may be inclined to embrace the special effects or witty dialogue as the hallmarks of the movie. Yet these are not what made Star Wars a classic.  The reason Star Wars has been held in reverence by the generation that grew up on it has been for one reason: we wish dearly to become Jedi Knights. The fantasy/science fiction blend brought together the most fundamental elements that made its heroes our role models.  In The Phantom Menace, George Lucas has forgotten this reason for his success. In no way, after watching the movie, do I want to be in Qui-gon or Obi-wan's place alongside Jar Jar Binks or any number of the other insipid &quot;fantasy&quot; characters created to please the juvenile audience. The only redeeming portion of the film is the final sword-fight -- if not for its action then for its high drama and suspense. But a few minutes of excellent fantasy will not make up for the childish and recycled story preceding them.  Finally, let it be said that the pod-racing scene was drawn out beyond all purpose. For these reasons, I give The Phantom Menace a heart-felt &quot;2&quot; rating, and have already sworn off watching the second installment."
"This movie was absolutly terrific. It doesn't measure up to Return of the Jedi or The Empire Strikes Back, but it gives them a run for their money. This movie takes place approx. 35 years before A New Hope and tells how Anakin came to become a Jedi."
Don't get me wrong. This film had good imaginative special effects. My favourite visuals were the R2 units being dispatched to fix the sleek silver copy of an SR71 Blackbird.  I can't wait for the director's cut.  Not with more footage but with all Jar Binx character removed. Otherwise I might buy the video anyway and re-edit it myself to remove that idiot. Hmmm.. actually that gives me an idea to get a pair of scissors and cut out all ewok scenes from my Return of the Jedi video.
"It's obvious that George Lucas has surrounded himself with 'Yes Men.' How else can you explain the ridiculousness that is PHANTOM MENACE? Juvenile and wooden, the film failed to hold the attention of my 11 year-old. My eight and six year-olds enjoyed the movie. Was George aiming that low? I seriously doubt it. ** out of *****"
"Update: It&#x27;s been 14 years since I was writing this review as a teenager. Rereading it today, I cringe at how forgiving I was of this movie&#x27;s flaws. I like this movie less and less as I get older and now consider Episode I to be the ultimate cautionary tale of filmmaking. The original review is preserved for nostalgia.  Original: -------------------  This movie was the perfect addition to the Star Wars saga. Well, it was almost perfect. I agree with what most people have to say: The acting was great, the Special Effects were amazing, and the music was very well done (hats off to John Williams for composing the soundtrack; I fell in love with the song &#x22;Duel of the Fates,&#x22; which plays during the light saber battle with Darth Maul.)  However, I must be honest: the movie is not perfect. Below, I have listed some points that make it flawed:  -While the special effects are great, they use the new style of computer generation, and it doesn&#x27;t give quite the same feel as how it was done in the old films.  -Over half of the characters in the movie are computer generated. Personally, I liked it better when they were all done with people in costumes or puppets.  -Queen Amidala&#x27;s hair styles get more abnormal in every scene.  All of these are minor flaws, and didn&#x27;t affect my overall score. However, there is one other problem:  -Jar Jar Binks is in the film. For this reason alone, I must deduct one point off my rating. There is no excuse for an annoying character like that to even have a part in a Star Wars film, and now he&#x27;s coming back in Episode 2. My only consolation is he is killed or exiled before episode 3 ends, because he is never shown in the later episodes.  I give it a 9/10 overall."
"I went to the cinema with my 10yrs old little brother. We were both very disappointed. My brother commented he could write a better story himself. The movie is a one big bundle of special effects and characters without any depth in them. The writer could have made a great story out of the concept, focusing on the intrigues in the collapsing republic and the Hitler-like rising to power of the emperor. Instead, they focused on that Jar-Jar and that annoying, would-be darth, kid. It's not a film for adult people, sadly, even my kid brother thought it was a waste of time and money. Out of pity, I give this movie a score 4 out of 10."
"Oh, I remember my youth so well.  I used to think of the Force with great awe, as something mystical that could never be explained.  Then I saw The Phantom Menace.  I can't even begin to imagine what would posess George Lucas to want to ruin one of the greatest movie myths of all time, and explain the Force as something biological, which can be determined by how many parasites you have living in your blood.  To explain the Force is a crime against cinema, and therefore this movie is an embarrassment, an abomination.  No amount of cool light saber battles or pod races can ever change that.  Add in Jar Jar Binks and a huge cast of unnecessary CGI characters, and you have one of the worst movies of all time."
"If you want to know the physical component of the force...  I have not found the force in this film, except in this ridiculous blood analysis.  No soul, no suspense, just some beautiful images, and Nathalie Portman. It's not enough to make a good film. I'll not see the next ones, instead i'll see again the Trilogy."
"The worst thing about this movie is not that it stunk from start to end, or that Lucas has messed up the otherwise excellent saga, or that it's a movie made just for the money and to show what one can do with computers, or that every friggin alien in the movie was supposed to be funny but was rather annoying, especially Jar Jar (my God it must be the most idiotic character in movie history), or that it's strictly made for boys under 10 years, or that it has NO Star Wars feeling whatsoever, or that it is one of the worst movies Hollywood has produced for the last decade. The worst thing about the movie is that so many people liked it. It just makes me furious. Did any of you see the three first movies? - 2/10"
"Just remove Jar-Jar Binks, and already you're up running against the original trilogy. But there is more to it than that. Isn't it weird how the technology seems to have developed about a hundred or so years, when in fact the story takes place some 30 years BEFORE episode 4? And how clean and shiny everything is compared to the great ruggedness of the original series? And how terrifyingly bad Pernilla August's acting is? Well...it's just a film. Nothing really special. But I can understand if the kids love it - it is really not a film for Star Wars lovers. It's a film for the new generation of Star Wars lovers, who never got to see and hear the legend growing..."
"We all know, there are people who vote 10 for films just because they love them, and do not judge objectively. Most of us do it.  The thing is, if a film makes you cry or laugh or feel anything at all by the time the end credits are rolling, then you should give it whatever score you feel. I'm the first to admit, some of the films I've voted for are not what you would generally call classics, but I defend anyone who votes highly for something because, if they are voting from the heart, then they are voting sincerely.  I know how it feels when someone gives 10 to a movie you think totally sucked. I absolutely hated The Phantom Menace, but for whatever reason those thousands gave it a 10, then they thought it deserved it. I thought it was tripe, and could argue until I'm purple why it was tripe, but if someone gets pleasure out of it, then why should we care?  If you agree with me, click on my link and see what else I like. If you don't, then take a day off and learn to stop caring what other people think so much.   And remember, the only problem with the global village is all the global village idiots."
"I am a big fan of the first three Star Wars movies, and had hoped that the mystery and almost childlike grandeur of the others would be repeated in this chapter/movie.  But alas no.  This movie had the feel of an expensive, long, overblown advertisement for Star Wars toys and video games.  Even the feel of the characters wasn't there.  Most seemed to be just &quot;going through the motions&quot;.  I could not make myself empathize with any of them.  To me, there are two sure signs that a movie is lousy: 1) you look at your watch every 15 minutes or so; and 2) you start to hope that the &quot;bad guys&quot; win. I did both.  The special effects were amazingly wonderful, but the movie itself was empty.  It wasn't even fun to watch.  Would I recommend it? NO! If you are a fan of Star Wars, stick with the first three movies.  They were MUCH BETTER!"
"While &quot;The Phantom Menace&quot; was good, it wasn't great.  It wasn't anything that made me want to see it again and again, much like &quot;Star Wars: A New Hope&quot; and &quot;The Empire Strikes Back&quot;.  It left a distinctly unpleasant taste in my mouth for several reasons. First of all, the plot itself was strictly by-the-numbers and pedestrian. Secondly, I felt like I was watching a big commercial for Star Wars toys. Also, introductions of new concepts into the Star Wars universe, such as &quot;midichlorians&quot;, didn't work very well.  And, lastly, several of the famed CGI characters, (particularly Jar Jar Binks) was forgettable at best, annoying at worse.  But you can tell in the movie theater that &quot;The Phantom Menace&quot; just didn't have the same hold over the audience that the other three movies in the original trilogy did.  Even the re-release of &quot;Star Wars: A New Hope&quot;, a movie that was made over 20 years ago, generated more energy with theater-goers then &quot;The Phantom Menace&quot; did."
"This is clearly a movie for &quot;Star Wars&quot; fans who are returing to see the benging of the most famous film trillogy every made, and for those coming to see it for the first time. A special effects masterpiece. Especaly the climax duel between Obi-Wan Kenobi, and Qui-Gon Jinn taking on Darth Maul.&quot;The Phantom Menace&quot; is a non-stop adventure for &quot;Star Wars&quot; fans old and young."
"Episode I has my vote as one of the worst, if not the worst major hyped release of 1999.  It makes a mockery of Star Wars and gives a bad name to every actor in it.  Where does one begin?  Wooden, leaden acting from start to finish.  No emotional content anywhere.  Incredibly pointless special effects.  Extremely loud soundtrack.  Pointless fight scenes.  Stereotyped aliens (note the slights to Asians and Semites, among others).  The only redeeming aspects of this bomb are the incredible eye-popping special effects.  And yes, the costuming was very creative.  &quot;So What.&quot;  I certainly hope this dog is only released as a pan-and-scan on VHS so others will avoid it.  It's a hive full of scum and villainy..or something like that."
"There are two good scenes in this whole movie.  One is the Pod race and the other is the battle with Darth Maul.  That's it.  I'm not what one would call a hardcore Star Wars nut, but I loved the first three.  So, of course, I was excited when Episode 1 was announced and when the first trailer came out.  Then, I grew rather skeptical of it.  The hype was huge and my excitement started to wane.  Of course, I still wanted to see it.  This is when I found out what the bad reviews referred to.  The effects were incredible, the action was cool, but the actors were lame.  In particular, Jake Lloyd.  This kid should've been coached better.  Plus, a scene that I think was totally unforgivable is when Anakin destroys the imperial fleet surrounding Naboo near the end.  Everything that he did looked like an accident.  The kid didn't look like he even knew what he was doing, yet he happens to push the right buttons by mistake.  Horrible.  George Lucas should feel shamed that he completely ruined the Star Wars universe.  Will I go to see Episode 2?  Yeah, but it had better be a big improvement over this."
"The first episode to the Star Wars saga was never going to live up to or surpass the hype it was given and we all knew that most of the critics would pan it. But to be honest, the negative reviews were far more accurate than any positive review I read. On the whole, it's not a bad film, but the problem is that none of the heart and soul that was poured into the other episodes is present here. Lucas had always said that this one would be just to set-up the story. Well Episode Four didn't have that problem. &quot;But it's the story, its the story,&quot; Lucas kept saying. Maybe, the trouble with that it isn't a very interesting story George boy. Everything about The Phantom Menace is flat and lifeless. The writing the direction, the action and the performances. Neeson is poorly cast as Qui Gon Jin, while McGregor speaks like a public boy with a large plum in the back of his throat as Kenobi. The plot isn't as nearly as compelling as the other three films either. The Trade Federation boundaries being in dispute sound as thrilling as the as the content of European sausages. And who cares if Portman as the Queen ever signs a stupid treaty or if Terence Stamp is voted out of the Senate? True the special effects are impressive, but without the rich characterisation of the previous films, we don't really care about the outcome. The action scenes seem rushed because Lucas has lost nearly all of his sense of timing and none of them come close to the fantastic Death Star assault at the end of the 1977 film. The nadir though has to be the suggestion of the virgin birth of Anakin Skywalker... please! None of the assurance and character of the previous films is present here and the only positive feeling you have coming away from it is that, hopefully it is setting up a stronger story for the next episodes. To end on a personal note, I remember that Time Out wrote about the original film &quot;even if you've been entertained, you may feel cheated of something&quot;. I hardly ever agree with Time Out, but that quote pretty much sums up my thoughts; not on Star Wars Episode IV, which was made on a mere $6 million, but on The Phantom Menace, which cost 20 times as much."
"I'll keep it brief - I WAS a fan of Star Wars. Any one who says this movie is a masterpiece clearly has no right reviewing films. This &quot;film&quot;, if I can call it that, is more calculated and commercial than any piece-of-garbage summer flick to come down the pipe in quite some time. It almost makes Godzilla look heartfelt. Lucas has sold out big time, not that he hadn't done so earlier, but this is really reaching new lows. Perhaps George should take a little time to examine why he started making films so long ago. Make a statement, for God's sake put your heart fully into something. What do the words &quot;Jar-Jar&quot; mean to you, well thats the entire movie as far as I'm concerned. The Phantom Menace is &quot;Jar-Jar&quot;. One big fake cartoon made to entertain the slow-witted and create toy-consuming zombies of us all. Do you really believe there is a shred of dignity left in the series after this tired piece of crap. It is a shame, I actually respected good-old George for a period of time."
"Phantom Menace was so sad.  To see the great George Lucas fall from glory, and hit bottom hard enough to write this pointless, sorry movie.  What happened to the humor of the original series?  The clever one liners?  What happened to the vibrant characters, the tight plotting.  What happened to the *love* that George put into the first and third movies?!  Where did that soaring imagination go??  It seems that George just lost heart when making this Star Wars.  He didn't seem to care enough to do it right.  Phantom Menace should have been buried before it ever saw the light of day."
"As usual, the sequel of a great series of films miserably failed to impress me: I admit that the special effects are marvellous and very convincing, but apart from that, nah, forget about the film, it's a waste of great actors like Ewan McGregor, Samuel L. Jackson and Liam Neeson. The dialogues vary between bad soap-opera quality and unbelievably dumb, and the Gungan, the flap-eared creature that should be funny just gets on your nerves. Let's hope the next one will be a lot better."
"Whenever I discuss The Phantom Menace, people always argue 'but you're 26 and you wanted it to be the same magical experience the first one was when you were a kid'.  Okay, I did. But I'm a rational, reasonably intelligent guy who just expects a bit of excitement, a bit of story with his computer-generated images. And a few 3-dimensional characters wouldn't be unwelcome. I mean, sure, what can be achieved through CGI is impressive, but I don't understand for a second why anyone (ie Lucas) would think such a CGI-heavy film would work. Has he never heard of OVERLOAD..? Probably yes, but then at nearly $900million why should he care?  Apart from excessive CGI, a thin plot and some of the shallowest characters ever seen (even in a post-70s blockbuster), the direction is just plain bad. Check out the scene where Jar Jar comes in when Padme is cleaning R2, introduces himself to her, and then it wipes to another scene. Hello? Did the reel just slip or something?  Let's just hope that Lucas and his boys can learn from this mess and come up with a decent character-driven story for Episode II. After all, it is supposed to be a love story. It's unlikely, however, given the profits Lucas will reap from this job, that they will attempt anything other than another two milkings of the unhealthily-loyal fans massing out there.  Go rent The Matrix, and forget this one for Christmas. I just hope Lucas has seen The Blair Witch Project before he starts work on Episode II's script. Mind you, he probably writes it in storyboards anyway.  It's not just a bad Star Wars movie, it's just a BAD MOVIE. End."
"Since there are so many comments already, I'm sure the ones that I have have already been repeated in other various places, so I'll just point out some visual discrepancies I noticed during the movie.  I will say that the special effects and mecha/landscape/building designs, along with the costumes, were as nice as I had expected them to be.  Aesthetically, this is a superior film.  However, I am the sort of individual who appreciates plot complexity and depth, so to see a little more character development and less pod-racing probably wouldn't have induced my dozing off during the middle of the film.  Even still, I would like to point out some interesting things (note, I have only seen this movie once--in a theatre--so my observations may be flawed!):  1) In the couple of scenes before the beginning of the pod race, Jar Jar is trailing across the sand behind the other characters (I think...it's been a while).  It's a wide-angle shot, so he's not really close up or in detail, but the camera's close enough to be able to see Queen Amidala &amp; co. leaving footprints in the sand...but Jar Jar doesn't!  2) That Queen Amidala sure has a nice chrome-colored silver ship.  Boy, it reflects everything!  The blue sky, the clouds.  What a beautiful day to land in Coruscant.  Ahh, just staring up into the clear, bright sky that is crowded with other airships, watching the objects weave paths above the city horizon...wow, I wonder what kind of finish Amidala uses on her ship to make it so that only the sky, clear of airborne objects, is reflected.  Like I said, it's been four months since I saw the movie, so I could possibly be inaccurate or utilize inaccurate reasoning (i.e., maybe it was a physics &quot;trick&quot; that enabled Amidala's ship to do what it did).  Anyway, the reason why I was so observant on visual effects was because all the other elements of a film failed to maintain my attention.  Actually, I don't think anything (besides the visual effects) really even captured my attention in the first place.  It seems as if there are those who believe that stunning graphics can compromise plot substance.  *yawn* Even trying to come up with other positive points about The Phantom Menace make me sleepy."
"Was that it?  After all the hype and fanfare what we get is a infantile story, dreadful dialogue and bits and pieces ripped off from the previous Star Wars movies! Oh, and the endless marketing opportunities of course, mustn't forget those. It saddens me that it seems to be enough just to chuck endless CGI at an audience and lots of them will just lap it up. Shame on you! Demand character, story, acting, hell maybe even an emotional response. My favourite character was Jar Jar Binks - at least you couldn't understand what he was saying!"
"This pre Star Wars episode was less than anticipated.  It was obvious that the movie was based on the back story to the Star Wars saga.  Even with the minimal plot, the movie could have been more entertaining if the actors had been allowed more screen time. As it is, the movie is filled with scene after scene of special effects and artificial characters. Great if you are interested in seeing how far the field of FX has advanced but rather boring if your looking for a good story."
"X generation-like animation with no particular reason. Thin story. Good renderings but so what? I was disappointed to see the Jedi &quot;philosophy&quot; almost missing, something which made the other episodes sane. I mean, should I like someone because he's dressed in white (beige) and hate everyone with red marks on a black face?. As for the digital architecture (who dunnit?): a student wouldn't get a very good mark in it. I really expected much more, Mr Lucas!"
"To see things like this saga of films (Star-Wars), to listen and to read the commentaries that are made praising the grandiloquence of the special effects, and to think that just by these things can be thought that a huge film has become, makes me blush of other peoples shame. In these films one becomes, in the first place, an authentic scorn to which is science, reason why only it is left the fiction: How it is possible that it tries to do to think that in the empty space immense explosions are listened, that the ray-laser can hit to each other, see as if fluorescent lights they were, and stop their trajectory to 1'5 meters of the grip of a sword without obstacles? The amount of nonsense histories that are counted,  surrounded by pseudo-epics comic strips, overcomes the patience of any mind moderately CRITICIZES. Sure if the question is to say &quot;amen&quot; to a gigantic economic assembly to sell dolls, t-shirts, small gifts of all type with personages of a stupid film, The assembly is very well. But I feel it, me cannot swallow. It's very indigestible."
"At first I must admit that I am not a Star Wars fanatic, so I do not walk with Darth Vader helmets on my head or wear Luke Skywalker T-shirts. But ! I loved that movie, all three parts. This Episode I is just miserable and it's only because of high expectations around it. It's only boring (there's no story at all) but after half an hour I was fed up with those awful lot of disgusting and annoying creatures, with the stupid wisdoms about the Force and the Jedis. I expected an exciting movie and it almost made me go home just after the beginning. Technically it was perfect, the visual and the sound effects were amazing, but this movie should have been a five minute demo film of Dolby Laboratories Inc. rather than a Star Wars episode. But it's all about making money and people should understand that; after the brilliant trilogy everyone wants to see this Episode one, so everyone buys the ticket, so financially it is a great success, no doubt about it but as a film this is a shame."
"I am not going to argue that the first trilogy to be released (of which the Empire Strikes Back was the best) was fully adult fare. However, there were relationship sensibilities and plot and dialogue that that were engaging to even someone over twenty. Most importantly, the characters had weight and there was a sense that the events portrayed came from a rich historical background.  Unfortunately, here the sensibilities of all aspects of the film would be at par with a poor Saturday morning cartoon. Very disappointing. The Matrix was in all respects a far more superior SF movie."
"As someone who saw the original Star Wars on the big screen when first released, I was very disappointed by this tepid offering. In the original movies there were excellent characters such as Solo, Obi-Wan and Vader. Here, everyone is as insipid as Skywalker and Leia were in the original.  Lucas doesn't seem to be able to direct actors. The film is nothing more than a marketing tool for games and gadgets. It's impossible to have any empathy for the characters in this movie; there are none."
"Has George Lucas lost the plot? Someone certainly seems to have mislaid the plot for this film - an hour in to this film I was so bored I almost fell asleep. Luckily, the pod race (highlight of the whole film) came along to perk things up.  I can't believe Star Wars fans are excusing this by saying it's a curtain raiser for parts 2 and 3, or that it has to be seen in the context of the whole saga. Films are meant to ENTERTAIN, for goodness sake. I don't pay money to go to the cinema to watch extended trailers.  Without Han Solo and Princess Leia, all we had was a procession of wooden characters speaking leaden dialogue in that irritating &quot;mock classical English&quot; accent that George Lucas seems so keen on.  George Lucas has taken Star Wars fans for granted, assuming that  state-of-the-art special effects (which I felt gave the battle scene a cartoon-like quality) would be enough. Worryingly, it seems he was right"
"I can't believe some people went crazy waiting this film. It was very one-dimensional, boring, frustrating, predictable and I got the feeling that it tried to please as many people as possible. This is a product that was filmed to rip off as much money as possible with all other stuff (games, figures, t-shirts etc), not a movie. A piece of crap."
"The invention and detail that had gone into creating the planets / droids / landscapes / battle scenes was fantastic, but after you stop going &quot;wow&quot; at all the fantastic landscapes, you get bored watching a bunch of emotionless and invincible human characters traipsing around meeting up with various aliens who (unlike their human counterparts) are capable of displaying emotion and are vulnerable to droid bullets.  The emotions displayed by the non-human characters generally create an impression of pathos / self-interest / evil.  There are no characters (with the exception of Anakin's mother) who evoke any sympathy at all.  They might as well be chess pieces or play station characters.  I thought the plot was unnecessarily complicated for a movie that is supposed to be targetted at kids.  Are kids really expected to understand the unnecessary detail about the politics of trade, the pseudo-scientific-new-age rubbish about little germs that give you &quot;the force&quot;, and the politics of some global  congress.  None of these complexities were at all necessary for the plot.  Normally plot complexity is a tool that is used to make you understand the position of some character that is stuck between two perspectives, or is caught in some frustrating dilemma.  However, this film didn't involve anything other than pure goodies and pure baddies, with goodies dealing with each problem one step at a time.  I'm not normally inclined to political correctedness, but am I the only person who noticed that (while the filmmakers seemed to have fallen over themselves to cast the good human characters by skin colour in the exact proportions of the American population)  all the good guys have middle class American accents or upper class British accents, all the bad and unscrupulous guys have &quot;foreign&quot; (generally Asian) accents, and the pathetic dweeb has a Stereotypical American negro accent?  The fantastic graphics / landscapes of this film make me look forward to &quot;Lord of the Rings&quot; which will have the same sort of graphic wizardry, but (unlike the Phantom menace) can be guaranteed to have a good plot, due to it being based on an excellent book."
"After seeing the Midnight opening night screening at Highpoint Melbourne Australia I wished I Had not.  I really wanted this movie to blow me away, but unfortunalty that non comic relief Binks ruined the movie of what it once was a Drama filled Starwars saga. Since Jedi Lucas has taken a backwards step in his movie making. This disney Crap of CGI in Phantom just hits rock bottom. Even though Binks had a big roll in Destroying this film, it is full of ditches and pot holes. I am not even going to bother explaining all of these. I will summarise  1: Binks stinks ( heads the List)  2: Viceroy Speech was really bad.  3: Boss Nass and his Slobbering ( How Silly)  4: Big Fish not once but twice  5: Captain Panaka - We will be Siting Ducks  6: Annie Skyawlker - Oppps every five Minutes, Happy go Lucky Pilot  7: Pod Racing two headed fools.  8: Jabba and that lovely sound when he starts the Pod Race  9: Not enough Sith even if there is only a Master and an Apprentice  10: The stupid Parade  11: Battle driods (Roger Roger) Useless Sticks.  12: Saber duel on Tatooine was filmed to close  13: Space Battle was a huge dissapointment no excitment  If EP2 is similar to EP1 in comic relief EP3 will be Viewed on video at someone else's house so my Electricity is not wasted.  Considering George lucas's Tendency to Incorporate video game elements into his movies, I think there may be a scene in the next movie, involving Jar Jar, and resembling some sort of platform game... possibly &quot;Bobble Bubble&quot;.  * out of ***** and thats for the Maul/Obi-Wan duel which was the best Bit."
"The fact that 30% of voters registered this film 10/10 worries me.  As a completely unimpressed party, I would really like to know why?  It wasn't terrible but it also wasn't very good.  It's acting; storyline and dialogue left me restless in my seat after a mere half-hour. Those that raved about this film must have such blind faith in the past three films, that they would have enjoyed a film of Luke Skywalker finishing a crossword puzzle.  Am I being overly harsh about this film as an adverse reaction to the religious following it is receiving? Maybe - but there aren't many unbiased opinions around.  There were a few small redeeming qualities: The special effects were good; some of the shots were very interesting and Liam Neeson was streets above his co-actors.  All in all the only real interest in the film are the connotations to the preceding movies. which I suppose is what it's all about.  Take away the Star Wars from this film and it goes straight to video."
"I will keep this short as I am sure there have been heaps of comments so I will break into things I did and didn't like about the film.  Things I liked  It was good to see some full Jedi in action not just a half trained Luke Skywalker  Darth Maul was cool but criminally underused  The light sabre duel at the end was awsome, however I do have a problem about the two Jedi ganging up on Maul it does not seem very noble  The planet effects were breath taking  Things I didn,t like  Wooden actors no emotion at all  Poor story  Special effects should be reserved for planet shots and space shots.They simply do not work on characters.Jar Jar and co looked like cartoon characters with no depth or weight to them at all.  Jar Jar Binks, say no more he sucks big time  I also discovered having read many comments from others on this page that many who liked this film were very offensive to those who did not,saying that they were not true Star Wars fans or did not get it. I am a long time Star Wars fan but I am not willing to say that anything George Lucas cranks out is the best thing since sliced bread. To wrap up on the whole most people liked the first three films, but with this one a great deal did, a great deal didn't, and some were indifferent and that I thinks tells the whole story."
"I really was looking forward to Star Wars episode I, but I was really disappointed when I finally saw the movie. I found the characters to be much too naive and the plot kind of ... &quot;no frills&quot; type, easily predictable. I suppose that if I was 12 years old, the movie would have blown my socks off, the same way Star Wars IV, V and VI did a couple of years ago. Of course everything in this world is about money, but deep inside I kept on hoping that George Lucas would make a movie for adults and not for kids, a movie for the guys who saw the other episodes but had since then grown up and were expecting something much less &quot;fairy-tale&quot;...   On the other hand, I expect kids to love it, and I really loved Portman's performance. However, suddenly finding Ewan McGregor in the role of a jedi warrior, well it contrasts somewhat &quot;violently&quot; with other roles he has played in his career (I thinking of Trainspotting of course)..."
"... not much of a movie, really.  The good parts first: The special effects are great, and they really help you feel like you are in that galaxy far far away. Some of the actors are doing a good job, and the music is as good as always.  But, there really are too many flaws with this movie. Besides my personal preferences, such as finding jar-jar a major downside (is it just me, or did anyone else find his portrayal somewhat racist?), and it being too much of childrens movie, there are several unbiased (I hope) downsides with the movie.  Directing: Well, lets face it. Lucas is a great producer, and a good screenwriter, but he is a fairly crappy director. Compare for example the acting in Star Wars - a new hope, with The empire strikes back. While the first provides fairly flat characters, the same characters (and actors) really shine in Empire strikes back. Lucas should have stayed as producer, and not destroyed the acting with his mediocer directing skills.  Story: While delivering the main objective, flesh out the background of the trilogy we all have come to love, there are flaws in it. For example, Darth Maul would have been better left out. As it is now, we get to know _nothing_ about him. Who is he? Where does he come from? What is his motives (what does he want revenge for)? I also found the political system described majorly oversimplified (why did they need the queen to cast a vote of disconfidence) and, really, doesnt starting a war on a planet sound like a somewhat risky plan for a smart person like Palpatine? If all he needed was someone to request a vote of disconfidence, there really should be easier ways.  All in all, I think its an ok introduction to Star Wars, but on a scale from one to five, this movie doesnt deserve more then three."
"I'm a Star Wars fan, just so that we have that fact established. I have loved the Star Wars movies since the first time I saw them, and they're great. Except for &quot;The Phantom Menace&quot;. This is a movie that hardly makes it as a part of the Star Wars saga. Lucas appears to have made this film in a hurry. There weren't many parts of this film which could not have been better. As an overview, I could say that most of the story, parts of the acting, and too many of the visual effect shots could, and should, have been better.  Basically, everything goes wrong from the start. You are never properly introduced to Obi-Wan Kenobi and Qui-Gon Jinn, so you never really feel attached to them.  George Lucas should have considered dropping some of the Gungan and Jar-Jar Binks-scenes in advantage for letting us get to know the characters better. The Gungans worked poorly as &quot;Ewok-wannabe's&quot;.  What's up with the technology? On a little planet in the outer rim, around 50 years before the events of &quot;A New Hope&quot;, they have really shiny, aerodynamic spaceships with displays far more advanced than any of the starfighters of the battle of Yavin. They have Destroyer-droids with shield-generators (even the Galactic Empire had no droids with shield-generators), and most annoying of all: Darth Maul's spaceship has a cloaking device (not revealed in the film, but still...). When the Millenium Falcon disappears from the scopes of the Star Destroyer Avenger, 50 years after Episode I, captain Needa clearly says that &quot;no ship that small(!) has a cloaking device). The Millenium Falcon is at least twice as big as the Sith Infiltrator, and still, someone managed to fit a cloaking device into the Infiltrator. Weird!!!  George, please drop the Anakin Skywalker-- Jesus Christ comparison... -----------------------  From all the bad to some of the good (but it's not much): Jake Lloyd does a great job as Anakin Skywalker. So does Natalie Portman and Liam Neeson (but they've always been great in their work). The effects were stunning, and the duel between Obi-Wan\Qui-Gon and Darth Maul was incredible. And of course, John Williams' score is, as always, magnificent.  Well, I think I've said enough for now. There was a lot of bad things in this film, but I have to admit that it was an entertaining movie to see. But as a Star Wars-fan... well, just start from the top."
"I am just coming from the swiss premiere, and I am really disappointed. I already guessed that TPM wont reach Return of the Jedi, not to speak of New Hope or Empire strikes back.  Why made George Lucas a Disney-Movie? Disney makes 'em better! He once said, that he has to reach the generation which did not grow up with the trilogy. What a **** excuse. Most of this generation already saw the trilogy. The only generation who did not grow up with Star Wars was the one in the time of the New Hope. And they loved the real Star Wars.   I won't say anything about Jar Jar, he disqualifies himself.  There are two other thing that really made me angry:  1. The Pod Race. It isn't thrilling, it isn't cool, nothing. It is much more fun to play it on the PC. The whole scene is much too long and the cuts are not fast enough. You don't feel anything when you see this one.  2. Darth Maul: ok, I knew that he wouldn't reach Darth Vader. Nobody could do that. But pleeeease George: Make him more evil next time. Darth Maul wasn't but a better Federation Robot. I am not the one who argues about developping caracters and so on, New Hope worked well without it as well, but a Lord of the Sith should be really evil, and not only a good fighter.  There were may other things making me really angry, but lets not forget the good things of this movie:  1. Special Effects: Tremendous, the Visual Effects as well as the accustic. 2. Dart Sidious, although most of him was already shown in the teaser. 3. And what's most important: It's a Star Wars Movie. It's just as Brosnan-Bonds: Although they ain't any good, you have to see them.  But please, George: Don't try to take the Disney-Road, we love you for the Trilogy and not for Jar Jar, Computer Games and Merchandizing Stuff.  After all, I hope, Mel Brooks makes a Sequel to Spaceballs, someone has to comment TPM."
"I have already added my comment to the currently 1670. But, I thought after reading some of the other comments on the movie I decided to add yet another one.   Some people, like myself, have complained somewhat on the lack of  'life' in the characters in the movie. I want to recommend a sci-fi movie that has good acting, humour (in combination with sci-fi!), some stunning effects, etc; go and see or rent on video Besson's &quot;The Fifth Element&quot;. It has a story, tension, and so on...  Saying that, I still think Episode I is worth seeing despite my mild disapointment..... (See my previous comment...)"
"I agree to most critics in this page, and would just like to make one thing clear about the people who thought The Phantom Menace was better than the three earlier films. I can guarantee that one of the best films they&acute;ve ever seen, is Men in Black.  And the rest of us, who don&acute;t like childish, clumsy humour performed by animated monsters, well, we have to wait and hope that Part II have a little more substance, and build up more &quot;alive&quot; characters."
"The Phantom Menace came amidst a huge cacophany of hype, yet I kept my expectations low - I didn't expect the best film of the year, let alone of all time.  Even going in with this attitude, however, I found myself sitting in the cinema after the film thinking how much better it could really have been.  I must say that at a shallow level the film is enjoyable, but if you take a moment to remember that you are not seven anymore, the sinking feeling of disappointment is palpable.  The Special Edition of the Star Wars trilogy should have set the alarm bells ringing.  In a marketing masterstroke, George Lucas used the originals as a dry run for Episode One.  In came Jawas falling off faux-dinosaurs and out went Han shooting first to kill Greedo - they added in a shot from Greedo, so Han wouldn't look so bad. We liked Han *because* he was a rogue.  The kiddie elements, almost unnoticed, were increased.  And the CG - it looked too clean, you could tell that the characters were not real, which shouldn't really be the case post-Jurassic Park.  One of the attractions of Star Wars was it's rough and ready feel.  The Phantom Menace is totally devoid of this.  It feels bland, it lacks almost any tension or convincing action.  Star Wars was full of snappy one liners (&quot;Would it help if I got out and pushed?&quot;, &quot;You're a bit short for a stormtrooper, aren't you?&quot;), and also gritty realism - Luke's family murdered, the rebel's retreating in a smoke-filled corridor in the face of the Imperial might.  None of this appears in the Phantom Menace.  The space battle has none of the drama of the Trench Run, nor the rebel attack on the Death Star in Return of the Jedi.  And the way it is resolved by the young Anakin is laughable!  Star Wars was never about farce - the droids and the Ewoks may have been mildly annoying at times, but they pale in comparison to Jar Jar Binks, a CG bumbling fool, who appears in virtually every scene as a kid-pleaser.  And the much-touted bad guy, Darth Maul, hardly makes an appearance and says almost nothing.  He is not scary, he is not exciting.  The light sabre battles appear dull, there is no exchange of banter, only slickly-choreographed swordsmanship.  The Jedi do very little, aside from occasionally knocking some battle droids (stormtroopers were sooo much better) over with a force blast.  The only saving grace of the film is the central plot, of the rise to power of a certain Naboo senator.  The Machiavellian machinations are wonderfully done, but then you don't even get to see their conclusion - as is Lucas' wont, the events are not seen but reported, in an almost Shakespearean fashion.  Shakespeare did this because he only had a stage to use - Lucas' excuse is not so clear.  Hopefully, enough of the fan's criticisms will get through to make the second installment astronomically better.  We shall see."
"What a waste! Take some of the best actors around - Neeson, McGregor, Jackson, and the excellent McDiarmid - and virtually ignore the fact that they can act. In this instance, who takes the blame when the performances are wooden?   In the old days only the backdrops were supposed to be wooden; but in this film they are the best thing. The stunning scenes during the pod-race; the computer generated climax battle (fought between some odd sounding '70s retro types wearing flares and a huge army of undernourished 'droids). The finale is reminiscent of Part VI, with the three-way split between Jedi duel, land battle and space fight. Yet it still lacked the urgency of Return's climax.  The graphics are undeniably superb. But please, give us some credit for enjoying a good storyline too! Only in one or two scenes is the breathless pace and excitement of the original trilogy attained, and the bits in between just drag. As a 'scene-setter' for Episodes II &amp; III it's fine...but did it really need an entire movie to do this?   The revamped, re-released IV, V &amp; VI were far better, still showing how far ahead of their time they were. Part of that has to do with the way sympathy is built for the characters -  we really care about these guys! In Episode I it was difficult to get above polite indifference for the fate of the principal players (consider Neeson's demise in comparison to Alec Guinness in the first film...).  I really wanted to like this film, despite all the luke-warm press (perhaps because of it). But it just doesn't have a soul...Please Mr Lucas: we love you really -  you've done some great things. Just don't serve up any more glorified computer games or extended 'you've-seen-the-movie-now-buy-the-toys' adverts and call them films...Your company makes brilliant computer games; but this movie was a bit like sitting through someone else's game for two hours... ...oh, and how about this for a plotline for Episode II: have Jar Jar Binks die a glorious (and preferably messy) death for the Republic in the  first scene...that way we won't have to put up with the most annoying computer graphic ever programmed in the history of sci-fi...!"
"I carefully avoided the hype (no Pepsi products for me, thanks), but my own history as a Star Wars devotee provided sufficiently high expectations that this otherwise forgettable, forgivable, or even mildly enjoyable sci-fi spectacle hit me as a grave and bitter disappointment.  We all know the three-word name for this movie's greatest flaw: Jar Jar Binks.  But even without that intrusive and wholly unamusing comic relief, The Phantom Menace was too unfocused and too uneven.  There is too much going on for any characters or plot elements to be explored.  The compelling presence of Liam Neeson is wasted by the filmmakers who give him nothing interesting to do or say.  Overall, I get the impression of a studio so enthralled by their digital FX capabilities that they forgot to make a good movie to carry those visual fireworks.  You've heard this all before.  So what's good?  The backgrounds are beautiful. The costuming is imaginative.  The Jedi fight scenes are very exciting.  Neeson and Natalie Portman are both quite attractive.  And the digital character animation is an admirable accomplishment.  My final appraisal:  this was not a complete waste of six bucks.  See it a couple times at the dollar show.  	Don't buy it on video."
"The myth of Star Wars which has been the birth of a lot of Science-Fiction adventures, some good, some not so good now seems to sabotaged by it's inventor, the great George Lucas himself. It would take a long time to explain what could have been done better on &quot;Episode One&quot; but most is just to obvious to oversee. If you look at some of the breathtaking scenes of &quot;Star Wars&quot; or &quot;The Empire Strikes Back&quot; and compare it with the battles and intrigues of &quot;The Phantom Menace&quot; you've to ask: &quot;Where did all the people go?&quot; You cannot make a movie which has to represent something like one of the greatest Fantasy Adventures ever with a dozen actors and tons of computer generated imagery. Would there have been no other way to put in a character like Jar Jar Binks than a computer animation? Why the droids? Weren't the Storm Troopers of the three first movies not good enough to fight for the Trade Federation which seems to be technologically far more advanced than the evil galactic empire? In an interview Lucas once said that he wasn't sure about putting in a puppet to play an important character in a movie, now he replaces most the supporting characters in &quot;Phantom Menace&quot; by not even touchable computer animations. Lucas put it some really great effects in this movie, but they're so great they don't seem believable. Everything is just to big, to fantastic, to nice rendered. The ships of Star Wars always were machines and not living quicksilver drops. And about the cast. It's a good cast but Lucas really neglected them. He did all he could for the effects and the promotion but he ignored the cast, ignored the living people inside his giant video game. Sometimes it seems he didn't even want them to be more realistic than any of the bits and bytes enemy lines. If this should be the future of film making, men like Liam Neeson and Ewan McGregor shouldn't cooperate with the force which intends to wipe them out, all of them."
"The Phantom Menace has everything the other SW movies had save for passion, sophistication, subtlety, warmth, humor(Jar Jar is not just unfunny but anti-funny, since he sucks the life out of whatever scene he is in-and yes he is offensive too), suspense, soul, and respect for the audience. That leaves us with a movie that is basically a long, boring, shiny commercial for the next movie in the series.   On the bright side, I enjoyed seeing R2 and C3PO, Darth Maul&#39;s surprise CAMEO appearance was exciting, and you get to see a little more of what jedis are capable of, which is kind of cool. The star actors did OK considering but the characters were severely lacking in personality, in stark contrast to the endearing humanity and friction produced between the principals in the original trilogy.  I wish I didn&#39;t love Star Wars so I could just excuse this film and maybe even enjoy it but this movie was terribly disappointing. The plot is both more complicated AND more simpleminded than the other movies in this series. Lucas needs to hire a good director and a screenwriter while he&#39;s at it before his space epic becomes a bad running joke"
"Well, I wasn't expecting much from this film, as I thought the original trilogy was mediocre, but even so, I was unprepared for the scale of boredom and nausea (yes, it is possible to mix these two feelings, as I discovered) that this film induced.  Let's see, first there was the &quot;plot&quot; - the federation for some reason wishes to take over some planet that no one has ever heard of. The planet, understandably, objects, so they have a war. That seems to be about it.  Then, there were the &quot;characters&quot;, which were either selected to be as irritating as possible, or else designed to make respected actors wish they were somewhere else. The brat that was hired to play Anakin was surpassed in acting ability by the scenery, while Jar Jar would have been rejected by Disney, even on a bad day. I kept expecting him to burst into song about lollipops and rainbows. Ewan Macgregor sounded like he was forced to keep marbles in his mouth to affect an English accent  Oh yes, the &quot;special effects&quot;. In many scenes, the computer generated characters looked jerky and unnatural, as if they were done on a limited budget (a real joke when you consider the amount this turkey will rake in). Compared to Jurassic Park or Starship Troopers, there was a distinctly amateurish appearance.  But none of this will matter, of course - the film will still rocket to the top of the charts, both in public ratings and in the amount of cash extracted from the willing wallets of the groupies. Things have moved on since P T Barnum's day - now there are thousands born every minute.  Lucas knew that he could produce trash like this and still make millions. I suppose few of us would be able to resist the temptation to do the same thing in his place, but still it is sad to see that he doesn't have a bit more pride in his work. In the words of Austin Powers - if you see only one film this summer, see anything but Star Wars."
"I'm not going to go off on a rant about Jar Jar. OK, he's an annoying character, but Lucas seems fairly comfortable with that fact.  No, the thing that surprised me was just how bored I was with the film. Beyond a few fight scenes featuring Qui Gon Jinn and Kenobi fighting federation robots, I can't really recall anything to set the pulse racing.  Oh, I forgot. The Pod Race. Somehow I have this image of George Lucas popping over to his Lucasarts Games division and asking &quot;What's a really popular genre of computer games we haven't yet tried?&quot;. I tend to view that sequence as the worlds most expensive video game commercial.  This, coupled with the lack of a decent enemy (what does Darth Maul DO?), makes for a very unsatisfying movie. In fact, halfway through I actually caught myself looking at my watch.  I haven't done that in a film for a long time."
"Undoubtedly there was a market for another Star Wars film. How unfortunate that the offering we were served failed to come close to the worst of its predecessors. Modern technology should have been able to present us with a veritable feast of special effects. Some were excellent, some worse than useless, most run of the modern-day mill. The script failed to provide a decent vehicle for the actors as well as a reasonable storyline for the viewer. True Star Wars fans will probably have had their hunger satiated for a while. For myself [as not being totally blinded by mystique of the whole Star Wars story]I was massively disappointed in what I considered a feeble effort. 5 out of ten at best"
"The following words are my personal thoughts on Star Wars Episode One The Phantom Menace. It is in no way out to insult or offend anyone or anything. If you haven't seen the film then I would advise you not to read the following as it may give away plot lines, etc.  I enjoyed the film but didn't think it was deep enough. It relied too much on presuming you'd seen Star Wars (A New Hope). There wasn't enough mystic content (i.e. stuff on the force). Liam Neeson was good, as ever but you never really got any massive Force vibe from him. So, he can make a dice land on a certain side. That does not quite cut it for me. It didn't go into detail about the force as much as I would've hoped. At that time there were Jedis all over the place, the 'Force' should've been a massive factor in the film. On that subject,  felt confused as this film is supposed to be set only 30years before episode 4. So how, in 30 years, does 'The Force' go from something that everyone knows about and seems to take for granted, to some ancient mystical thing that allot of people are sceptical even exists? Maybe we find out in episodes 2 and 3.  Qui-Gon Jinn &amp; Obi-Wan Kenobi were not as Jedi-like as they could or rather should have been. There were more just adventures/savours.  However, Liam Neeson's character was the best thing in the film and was closest to the Star Wars I know &amp; love.  Darth Maul, was in no way evil enough. His script was poor if at all there. He was in fact the Phantom Menace was he not? So why did George Lucas not go deeper into Maul's character? He could've been a fantastic character, a real evil, mystical, powerful presence......but alas no.  Anakin Skywalker actually had some depth to his character, he had a story you could follow and was not as annoying as I'd expected. Two poor points however, when he says goodbye to his Mum there seems to be no  real emotion unlike when Luke discovers his Aunt &amp; Uncle dead.  He's only a little boy so he would want to go off and play in the stars and become a Jedi, who wouldn't?..However he just couldn't walk away from his Mother in that manner and she took it pretty well too...I realise it is a difficult scene to write/do but something didn't work for me. It just seemed rushed and read through in a 'okay lets get on to the next scene now' way. In fact, for me, much like most of the film and the feel of the film itself. The other poor point about Anakin's character. The scene when he's in the Space-Ship, within the Space Station near the end of the film. Skywalker's character suddenly becomes like something out of a bad American Science Fiction movie. He should've been at least scared, (especially as we'd touched on the fear factor earlier in the film) and trying to control his emotions; like a true young potential Jedi (as he's supposed to be!) Not messing about pressing buttons in a 'I'm really not bothered at all that I could easily die here and at the same time am being cute &amp; amusing' way. It didn't work with the Ewoks and it didn't work with the young Darth Vader.  However the Pod race definitely worked for me. Exciting and powerful. Enjoyable stuff! Apart of course from the other giant American influence, that two headed American commentator. Very annoying,  this was supposed to be a galaxy far, far away not (as in my case) across the water. For me, George Lucas was always heading that way, all you have to do is compare A New Hope to Return of the Jedi.  One more Anakin point, actually it's not really an Anakin point, it just happened to be one of his lines. What I've grown up loving and one of the factors that always made Star Wars unique was the trusty 'Light Sabre' not a LASER SWORD!!!! as it was referred to in The Phantom Menace. Not once was 'Light Sabre' mentioned or even 'Force Beam'. I call a pen a pen cause that's what it is and always was, its a word that always worked fine, not an ink stick! If its not broke, then don't fix it! My final point. Years ago George Lucas created, if you like almost a new religion called the Force. This has become so famous that it almost exists. You go up to anyone and say, 'The force' and they will know exactly what you're talking about. That on its own, is impressive and amazing enough, let alone the world of Star Wars with it. &#145;The Force' is explained it well in the 3 original films, I personally particularly watch with great interest as Yoda trains Luke in Empire. So this said, I have to comment on how disappointed that Episode 1 changes something that has always worked better than just well by adding a new side to it. What I'm referring to is the symbiotic life form thing - just completely unnecessary - if Qui Gon' senses that the boy is special that's good enough for me. The force is a mysterious energy field that surrounds us, penetrates us, and binds the Galaxy together. Its not something you can measure with a machine. That was my most disappointing moment in the entire film. We were taught that the force is more than just moving objects around and is definitely not lifeforms within cells. Once again, if its not broke, then don't fix it! I have not mentioned yet what is to most people the worst character in the film. If  Jar Jar Binks was the only thing wrong with the Film then I'd be a happy man. There has always been characters like that in the Star Wars films. C3PO &amp; R2D2 for example. So basically I can put up with Jar Jar, yes his voice was annoying and yes, he was an unnecessary character....I did like it when Obe wan said something along the lines of &quot;have we picked up another pointless being&quot; Nice one.   The pointless character isn't the point, its the entire film, the fact that the Force was not concentrated on disappointed me and most importantly the changes to the aspects not needing a change. Having said all I have it may seem I don't like this Film. Well I don't think that is entirely true. Overall I enjoyed it - the trade dispute story was just in the background but involving enough, Binks was just there for the Kids and the action was at least all I expected.  Thanks for reading."
The film totally betrays the former trilogy.  {1} The trailer never shows the child which is the main character of the film... a five years old boy who drives spaceships better than Schumacher drives formula one cars... {2} It is designed only to sell gadgets and videogames. How it is possible to make two (2!!) very long scenes in which a child drives very fast spaceships? It was like to be in front of an old videogame without having the console (what a fun!) {3} In the end it is just a pizzazz of not very special effects like a lot of other films that attempted to imitate the first trilogy  Thank you Lucas for showing us which is the real force of our society: marketing (aka money).
"please, george, explain the significance of the title too me, as i saw little of menace and no phantoms neither...... i can only recall once going to a cinema with such low expectations - that for the last batman film, and it managed the unlikely feat of falling miles below them - and so was almost pleasantly surprised that this wasn't that bad. lucas manages to keep things moving at sufficient pace that you're left with no time to think about all the film's many, many faults. at least, that was my experience. and the lightsaber battles were amazing.   but what a wasted opportunity - the original trio, by giving us enough info about the characters to make us give a damn, and by staging the battles on an epic scale, made us care about the fate of the people concerned and the universe : this one was just a lot of clever, crisp scenes.  we learn nothing of the background of qui-gon or obi-wan, so why should we care when the former is killed?  and there is not a hint of evil in the film - not in palpatine, certainly no trace of it in anakin, and darth maul's scenes fly by so quickly..... even the battle droids pale into comparison with the stormtroopers and their semi-human / semi-automaton feel....... and why in a movie tailored for kids is that first text roll-up couched in trade-barrier talk and the whole plot driven by legal technicalities.... oh we could just keep on going on couldn't we?   finally - people in costumes or puppets still work much better than the cgu stuff - there's one scene where ewan mcgregor is supposed to be talking with jar-jar but seems to be looking somewhere at the back of his head....."
"I've watched the movie &amp; the original trilogy, read the books &amp; comics, collect the figures &amp; so on. I'm a fan. But I have a mixed feelings and opinion regarding Episode 1, which best described by these points.  10 GOOD THINGS : 1. Great effects. Lucas has managed to paint the StarWars worlds closer to his imagination with ILM technology. The Naboo palaces are elegant, beautiful Gungan city, hi-tech Coruscant and well-designed Battle Droids.  2. Professional actors and actresses. It's amazing to see some of the heavy-caliber actors/actresses and hot newcomers casted in the movie. Ewan is a perfect substitution for Alec Guinness, Liam has the charisma and posture meant for a Qui-Gon, Natalie's characterization has strength plus she has this intellect and sweetness in her image, etc.  3. Loyalty to the original trilogy. You can finally see how the Jedi (and the rest of the galaxy) are (were) like before the Empire rules. They are more liveful, energetic and colorful. All this without the expense of the Jedi tradition. You can see how the designs of settings, costumes and vehicles (although they seem to be more advance) will later contribute to the designs in the original trilogy.  4. I welcome the cameo appearance of some of the original cast. A. Daniels as 3PO, K. Baker as R2, Ian McDarmid's Palpatine, even Warwick Davis is there.  5. Great costumes. The Jedi cape has distinctive personality according to the one who wears it, without eliminating the uniformity of which is clearly Alec Guinness' OB1's costume. Amidala's costumes are meticulously designed with much Japanese influence.  6. Spectacular lightsaber fighting scenes. On the desert, in the hangar and the last one. Specially the last one. I think Lucas and his team want the best battle choreography done as the climax. When American audience has been exposed to fast-paced Asian action movies (Hongkong and Japanese anime), they have to increase the standard of this fighting scene to cope with the audience demands. And they did.  7. Not all things are explained which make me impatient to wait for the next episode. Lots of loose ends need to be tied here. Hopefully they are meant to be that way and not because of some fault in the narration.  8. Lots of 'delights' planted in the movie. Some for fun, while others I believe actually connected to the rest of the episodes. Try to find out, there are at least 6 'secrets' in the movie.  9. A complete family set. You have QuiGon to represent the old generation/the mentor, OB1 to present the young adult, and young Anakin for the kids to relate to.  10. John Williams is back as the composer for the soundtrack. My personal fav. is the last lightsaber-fight's background music. Nice job there Mr. Williams.  And now the 10 BAD things about this movie which, surprisingly spoken not by the press or non sci-fi fan, but myself and other long-time Starwars fans :  1. Jar Jar Binks &amp; Boss Nass. If Lucas needed to introduce the element of comedy, he should've done it through intelligent comical dialogue (just like what he did with Luke, Han and Leia), not some low grade physical slapsticks (I hate the way JarJar jumps into the water).  2. Target audience. Obviously Lucas directed this movie towards the 6 to 13 year old kids instead of his true long-time fans, who are mostly aged 20 to 40 by now. Perhaps this is also because of the fact of him being a father. We all can use the humour, but to what level exactly? The children seem to be the ones truly enjoying the entire movie.  3. Plot is too shallow. The media say,&quot;So are the rest of the episodes' plots.&quot; No. The original trilogy were conceived through careful and detailed narration. This was done by having the right chemistry between the characters and the dialogue are meaningful and entertaining. Unfortunately I can't say the same thing for TPM.  4. In connection with opinion #3, the entire movie seems like a series of pacthes of many beautiful and strong scenes. Perhaps the movie is too short, that we are not given enough time to know what is really going on. Or because it's really too simple while we're still thinking if that action really means something.  5. The effects and climaxes overwhelm the characterizations. Too many good things fighting each other. The CG creatures are too perfect, too smooth that you know how fake they are. When the Ewoks die in ROJ, I actually feel sorry for those 'little teddy bears' but in TPM I don't care much what happens to those 'overgrown ducks'.  6. Racism in context of personalization. I know Lucas is merely trying to entertain the kids but isn't he mentally suggesting to the kids, how silly the Jamaican Jar Jar Binks is, how simple-minded the Italian Boss Nass is, how evil the Japanese Viceroys are, and how greedy the-whatever-non-American-Watto is?  7. Anakin is too young. The original script was meant to have a 10 year old Anakin, but the genius Lucas thinks it would be more touching to have an 8 year old  to go through all the obstacles. Well, because of this there are odd moments when Anakin interacts which other characters, especially the sexual implication between him and Amidala/Padme.  8. I dislike how Anakin destroys the Droid Control Ship. It looks more like luck than the force. Oops, push this button (there goes the power generator), push this button (the battle (droids are destroyed).  9. The movie seems like a lab-rat to test ILM's new technology. The CG characters truly lack of emotion. The mimics are all there but not the emotions, not the souls. Lucas is better go back to actors wearing costumes and masks.  10. The chemistry between the characters (except for QuiGon and OB1) is lost in the midst of all the excitements.  I can only hope all of our disappointments and opinions do not fall on deaf ears, and that Lucas may have the remedy in the next chapters. So next time, I will be able to write 20 good things about Episode II with 0 bad things.  Thank you."
"Titanic, which is superior to Episode I, sustains its top position in the battle of the mainstream blockbuster films. As earlier commented by George Lucas himself and me, Episode I would do well in B.O. sales, but will never topple Titanic.  Episode I was a worthy opponent, but such a film with great effects, but a mediocre script, and a stupid annoying character like Jar-Jar Binks, hurt its chances at being number one.  Titanic had great special effects, but it also had a good script (I didn't say great, but it was engaging...forget if there were some fictional storylines or characters in Titanic. ..isn't that what film making or Hollywood is all about? The general story of Titanic was real history.  Besides Star Wars is fictional altogether, so there!!!!!)  All I hope now is that Lucas will ditch Jar-Jar, add more on-screen appearances of Sam Jackson's character, Mace Windu, and make Episodes II and III, better than Episode I.  Natalie Portman is one fine actress, and I do hope this part of the trilogy, will skyrocket her film career, and get the recognition she deserves."
"Checking the previous votes I might be in an extreme minority, but I dare to say it nevertheless...  &quot;The Phantom Menace&quot; is, compared to 4, 5 and even 6 a major letdown. This movie is nothing more than a bad excuse for, admitted, mostly astounding special FX bonanza, but nearly everything else what made 4 and 5 so special for a whole generation is missing. There's no sense of wonder, you don't care for the characters (as far as you can title the persons in the movie &quot;characters&quot;, which I wouldn't). The movie just juggles its way from one fight/action scene to the next with barely no story development (okay, okay, I know, it shall only set the backdrop for 2 and 3, but some itsy-bitsy plot would've been really nice).  What can be said about acting? Liam Neeson does his best and is the sole highlight of the film, Nathalie Portman was nice, the rest - blah... Especially Ewan McGregor had basically nothing to do, Samuel L. Jackson was in the movie (you can't say much more) and the C3PO part could've been spared easily. Darth Maul could have been an interesting villain, but what did they do with him?  The only scene which really had some suspense was the podrace, even if it is nothing more than a rip-off of &quot;Ben Hur&quot;, but at least it was well staged and executed.  TPM is, in my opinion, nothing more than a nearly average popcorn movie that's rather insulting to anyone older than 12 (and, I would like to point that out again, I really love 4 and 5 and still like 6), and for that, it's extremely violent, making me wonder once again about the PG rating.  Ironically, Disney's &quot;Tarzan&quot; which I watched the next night did a far better job as kiddies movie which is also highly entertaining for adults."
"The characters are cardboard cut-outs without personality. I found it impossible to care about any of them.  The Jar-Jar Binks character and his pseudo-Ebonic speech is entirely irritating.  The heroic &quot;Jedi-Masters&quot; encourage a small child to risk his life by high-speed racing. Didn't seem plausible to me!  The scenes where Jedi Masters Samuel L Jackson and Yoda talk together I just could not take seriously. I couldn't get past the fact that SLJ did NOT end each sentence with a swear-word (as he does in many of his roles), and the fact that Yoda sounded exactly the same as the Muppet's Fozzie Bear.  Basically a clone of Star Wars &quot;A New Beginning&quot;, but where in 1977 it was new and exciting, today it seems kinda pointless.  Don't be suckered into spending your money on this one."
"This movie was very disappointing. I was expecting a quality movie with good, or at least believable acting, and a plot. Instead I was treated to a children's movie. Clearly, this movie was not designed for anyone more mature than a pre-teen. The actors were wasted. This movie invested in some of the finest acting talent in the world: Liam Neeson and Samuel Jackson are excellent actors who were wasted on a movie that was made for people who have probably never heard of them. Had I been ten years old this movie would no doubt be among my favorites. However, as someone who has progressed beyond adolescence, this movie was a great disappointment. Hopefully episode II will mature with the age of the audience that episode I was designed for."
"Ugh! This is not worth your time or money.  Lucas gets so excited about the special effects that he forgets the story.  It helps in a three part story to actually have one.  Did any one connect with these distracting and annoying computer generated things, such as Jar Jar Stinks and the buzzy blue winged beast ??? Or with the flat, dull acting of the humans ??? or the contrived final battle between Darth Dull and Que Gone Jinn ???  There were two especially distressing &quot;plot&quot; elements. The first was the physical manifestation of the Force.  Something in the blood.  You can measure it. Argh! Where's the glorious spiritual mystery in that.  And secondly, Anakins virgin birth is unnecesarily Messianic.  Don't you think ?  One highlight is to know that Lucas can redo Ben Hur.  The pod race is a good piece of film.  But a pod race does not make a movie.  So it doesn't have a story and it doesn't have characters you care about. Lucas will still make his billion.  Such is the state of story telling at the millennium."
"The commentary seems to be divided between those who loved and hated this picture.  I did neither, which is why I found the whole thing such a disappointment.  When the credits finally rolled, I found myself rising from my chair and walking out thinking, &quot;Well, that's it, then.&quot;  Maybe it's because the entire movie felt like foreshadowing for the next one.  Lucas and his gang should have tried harder to generate a self-contained piece of work (you can watch any of the other Star Wars pictures without the rest and still have a fun time-- not that I know anyone who has tried).  Maybe Lucas is getting too comfortable.  He knows full well we'll all come back for the next one, so he doesn't feel like he has to work for this one.  It's a shame.  On one or two other topics.  Jar-Jar Binks needs to vanish.  Do whatever you have to, George, but ditch him.  He's a useless, racist stereotype (and you don't have to go looking for the racism either.   It's right there). There is no reason for his presence in the picture.  As for Darth Maul, I'm sorry but I wasn't scared.  The double light sabre was neat, but I guess he was where The Phantom Menace came in.  There might have been menace, but you never saw it.  The other thing these pictures need is some kind of reluctant hero (like Han Solo or Lando Calrissian).  Everyone in the picture was so earnest-- so desperate to fight for the cause-- that I wanted to see someone deflate it with an ironic comment or a dash of pragmatism.  One last thing.  When Luke Skywalker appears in Episode IV, he's living with his Aunt and Uncle on Tattooine.  Where does his uncle come from.  There's just Anakin and his mother.  They never mention a sibling.  Princess Amidala doesn't appear to have a brother either, so what's the deal?  That's all."
"The computer animation was technically amazing, and the choreography of the main fight scene was excellent. Every other element of the film was lacking. The story was poorly conceived, appealing to neither adults nor children. There were about four times in the entire film when a small number of people in the audience half-heartedly semi-laughed. The acting was third-rate, even by some first-rate actors. George Lucas clearly has forgotten how to write or direct a movie, and had the complete &quot;artistic freedom&quot; to put out a very poorly made film."
"I went to this flick not expecting much of a storyline, after hearing comments from other people who'd seen it, and they all said this flick sucked maximum, I felt I had to see it myself...  Ohkay. Its DEFINITELY a kids movie, and I'm probably too old for it, so story-wise, TPM is probably suitable for the kids, (despite the semi-political storyline)  Loads upon loads of SFX, you kind of get bored with it after an hour or so, and I found JarJar Binks to be an absolute pain-in-the-ass with his antics and stoopid accent. I also found the Naboo queen's accent stilted, her lines seemed to come out of one bored actress. It was difficult connecting with the characters, they seemed more like background fodder while the real star was the SFX!  But I did like the battle between the two Jedi and Darth Maul - now THAT was probably the most awesome part of the flick, the way they fought looked real and was actually heaps better than all the CGI - because it was REAL!!! You actually get the feel of them fighting, it was kewl!  aside from that, I think this flick could've been a lot better. I found the ending to be cliched, a typical starwars ending one might say. There were holes in the plot ie Anakin trying to restart his pod engines and flying at that speed, he would've crashed the instant he took his eyes off the field.  George Lucas could've made a better story with this to equal the CGI, the flick probably would've pleased more of the audience....  I rate this 5 out of 10."
"I commend George Lucas and Industrial Light &amp; Magic on their superior special effects and sound. However, I was disappointed by the story. Too much time was put into the effects and not enough effort was put into the story. The story appeared secondary to the special effects. Hopefully in the next episode, Lucas will give equal consideration to the story as well as the special effects. Also I thought that the film was to geared toward children."
"This movie violated all the rules for a good movie.  The acting was stiff and emotionless.  I was left with no feeling for any of the characters, good or bad.   The film maker has to make you hate the bad guys and love the good guys.  Neither happened in this one. A BIG DISAPPOINTMENT."
"When I left the theater after seeing this movie, I told a friend that I would watch it again just for the fight scene between the two Jedis and Darth Maul at the end.  Now that I've had time to think about it, I would say that's not true. While that scene was brilliantly done, it was interrupted periodically by the goings-on with Anikin and Jar-Jar. Those goings-on were quite possibly the most ridiculous grand finale ever filmed. The whole movie suffered from this syndrome: brilliance interrupted by obvious coddling to the lowest common denominator.  George Lucas has justified the slapstick slant and lack of characterization to his desire to make this movie accessible to children. I doubt he even believes that himself. This movie has a pathetic story, unmemorable characters (with the exception of Ray Park's Darth Maul), and puerile humor that simply isn't funny.  Despite all this, Lucas is raking in the dough. I'm sure that's all he really wanted."
"I'll try to be brief.  TPM lacked both likable and &quot;hate-able&quot; characters. Liam &amp; Ewan were wooden, Natalie was positively Charlie McCarthy-esque. Jake Lloyd was annoying, Jar-Jar was the same, only to the nth degree. Darth Maul was a no-show, Darth Sidious also.  You can bash the acting in Episode IV, but at least Han Solo was a roguish, wise-cracking character, and Leia was smart-alecky and brash.  Darth Vader had more than 2 lines of dialogue, and was quite scary.  As for those who say TPM is just setting up for the next two, how do you explain ANH?  That was a fun, enjoyable, self-contained story &amp; movie.  TPM is nothing more than a merchandising vehicle.  Oh well, not very brief..."
"NOT a good film!  Lots of action, yes, but Liam Neeson clearly mailed in his performance, and Ewan Macgregor was worse.  Only the little boy was any good, and the story was minimal.  Maybe episodes 2 and 3 will make this one make sense."
"While I loved the Empire Strikes Back, liked A New Hope, and wasn't fond of Return of The Jedi, I hated this movie. I saw it twice, and hated it more the second time. The characters were underdeveloped, and Jar Jar was a total waste."
"i &quot;hoe-hummed&quot; throughout the entire movie...  the characters(human) were not allowed to develop... too much time was spent with the &quot;virtual&quot; creations... i like my emotions to &quot;ride&quot; with at least 1 heroic person/or underdog... here, there was no time to get to &quot;know&quot; even 1... it was a movie full of &quot;flash&quot; and no &quot;substance&quot;... making it a waste of my time and money... (side note... i went home after seeing this, and watched the original 3 episodes, just to help &quot;undo&quot; the mood this new movie put me in... but... only time will help me now...).  GIVE ME MORE CHARACTER DEPTH IN THE NEXXT FILM !!!!!!!!!"
"I viewed this movie as kind of a 50 / 50 thing.  I liked the story and the characters but....  everything just looked so &quot;flat&quot; it severely lacked depth much like a video game.  It IS NOT a movie... it IS a video game.  I for one am getting very sick of all the C.G.I. junk out there, it just plain stinks.  I want to see real movies! I realize that obviously space movies need to use this element but in this case it is over-used."
"I must first say that I loved the original trilogy and was looking for a good movie.  Nothing spectacular but a good movie.  What I saw was poor at best.  The plot for this movie is very thin and the characters are non-existent. Darth Maul is a case in point. Exactly why is this person evil, is it the horns or the fact that Darth is in his name? Anytime the plot threatened to get interesting, such as on Coruscant, Lucas would be impatient to get back to the visuals and gloss over anything that could be in the least bit interesting.  I will say that the visuals of The Phantom Menace are second to none. However, unless Lucas focuses a bit more time and energy on the plot and the characters then I won't be seeing the next movie."
"After watching The Phantom Menace (in a very empty theater) I have devised my own theory that I think explains most of the movie's strengths (few) and weaknesses (many). It has been 22 years since Lucas promised the world a nine-part space saga. With the release of the new movie, he modified that to six-part, saying that he never really intended to make a third, post grown-up-Luke trilogy. But seeing Phantom makes me think he didn't really have a second trilogy either. The movie is paper thin, filled with much to do about nothing.  I imagine Lucas has been walking around with this story in his head for years, but that once he sat down to write it he discoved there just wasn't enough there to fill out three more movies. How else to explain the totally expendable character played by Liam Neesom? He does nothing but deliver exposition and bring the characters together that need to be together for the next two movies.  Any of the other major characters in this movie could have done that, particularly the more logical choice of Obi Wan.  And what about Obi Wan? He does nothing except pose as a stiff action hero until the last few minutes of the movies, when we find out his particular role in the coming two stories. He should have just showed up at the end to get his mission impossible assignment. We learn nothing about who he is, what his story is, what brought him here. Certainly that could have made this movie a little more interesting.  Everything that needs to happen in this movie in order to prepare us for the next two could be compressed into the first 45 minutes of a better movie.  A lot of people have complained about the acting, but I think everyone does just fine, considering they are all playing characters that have not been fleshed out at any level by the author. Lucas is lucky this is the fourth movie because fans of the previous films can fill in the character blanks for him and flesh out the characters in their own imagination -- an imagination fed by the creativity of the first three films. You just can't blame the actors. I mean, the acting in A New Hope was amateur at best (all of them got much better afterwards) and it was just fine because we cared about the characters. Here Lucas has picked some stellar performers and they all come across as though no one has told them what is going on.  The strengths of the movie are all contained in its last half hour. Finally you get an exciting(albeit badly filmed and total ripoff of the earlier movies) battle scene with Darth Maul, and you find out who is going to what with who in the next two movies. The end of Phantom is why I think many people are still coming out of this movie excited -- because it does make you hope for greater things still to come. It is just too bad Lucas didn't open his mind a little more and not only expand the visual universe of the movie, but expand the character's universe as well."
"The Phantom Menace is a turkey.  George Lucas has obviously lost it.  This is sad.  Star Wars, et al. are great or near great films.  They are chock filled with fun, conflict, and surprising special effects.  The stories unfold and we want to believe.  PM fails on all levels.  There's no compelling story, the characters lack passion, the actors are lost in space without competent direction, mouthing moronic lines for at least the half of the film when I could actually hear them.  As for the so called special effects, there's just too much of everything including the ludicrous all urban planet.  Lucas has become his own worst enemy having created an FX-WPA negative cash flow empire in Marin County.  Remember Howard the Duck?  Time to come up for some of that spectacular fresh air again, please."
"The film was decent, but not great.  I wish OB1 would have mis-handled his light saber and took Jar Jar's head off but that didn't happen, oh well.  The effects were great and the little boy who portrayed Anakin did a great job.  Liam Neeson and Ewan MagGregor also did a fine.  I found the plot to be a bit weak.  C'mon a 10 year old boy building a droid and a pod racer and he's supposed to be a slave?  There also exist some continuity problems that Lucas will have to address such as Anakin Skywalker cannot be an only child, as Luke Skywalker lived with his aunt and uncle's farm on Tatooine in the first movie.  I found the pod racing scene to be a bit weak also, I read another comment on this board about the scene being stolen from Ben Hur I concur with that assessment.  I also find it interesting that technology goes backwards in this film.  Robots fighting in this movie as opposed to stormtroopers who are humans 60 years later?  Maybe the smartest thing for directors to do would be to stop trying to make sequels and prequels.  The only reason Lucas did this for was the greenback and his latest &quot;effort&quot; and I use that term lightly, shows this all too clearly.  6 out of 10 stars"
"I truly do not get it. This film, according to the IMDB users, is in the top 90, and &quot;Titanic&quot; is bumped off of the list? I cared about the characters in &quot;Titanic&quot;, and also in &quot;A New Hope&quot;, &quot;The Empire Strikes Back&quot;, and &quot;Return of the Jedi.&quot; With the notable exception of Jake Lloyd, most of the actors in this film are exceptionally wooden. The visuals are stunning, but I want a reason to root for the characters BESIDES the fact that I  know what happens in the other movies. Well, at least I can take solace in the fact that this film is NOT going to pass &quot;Titanic&quot; like everyone predicted. That honor will go to &quot;A New Hope&quot; which was made when Lucas remembered that characters were more important than visual effects...."
"Could this picture have been worse?  Well, yeah but not much.  For easy reading purposes, the top five reasons why it was a waste of money:  1.  NEEDLESS RACIAL STEREOTYPES:  Yeah, fun.  Tell me the aliens (sorry, can't remember the name of the race) who took over Naboo weren't supposed to be of Asian ancestry.  We nehd approovahl ohf the sin-naat. Sure. Nearly every alien was supposed to be some ethnicity. Insulting. 2.  REALLY REALLY BAD DIALOGUE: Wooden and unfeeling. Did Anakin and the Queen really have an exchange that went, &quot;I care for you&quot; and &quot;My caring for you will remain&quot;?  Or did I imagine it? Lousy. 3.  BADBADBAD BAD BAD ACTING: Yes, they had good actors(except the children), but with no characters to play and no dialogue to say how good could you be? Plus, any movie that totally wastes Ewan MacGregor should be burned. 4.  JAR JAR: Ok, you defend him. Unfunny in every way possible. Fake looking too. 5.  NO BUILD UP FOR THE VILLAIN: Sorry, but you can't show Maul just standing around looking vaguely sinister a few times and expect the audience to be care about the climatic battle scene at the end. Plus, he looked like an Insane Clown Posse roadie. Zero character development for the villain. For everyone actually.  Sorry to rain on anyone's delusional parade but this movie was just made to fatten the bank accounts of Lucasfilm."
"When I saw Star Wars, it was breathtaking, I loved the scenes about when Qui-Gon Jinn and his apprentice Obi-Wan were fighting with droids and Darth Maul, I liked all the parts about Jar Jar Binks, he looks cute and he's really funny, Boss Vass is pretty funny when he shakes his head, Anakin is pretty cool, Darth Maul is the coolest and deadliest looking guy in the movie, he fights really well with his Light Sabre Staff, but most of all I liked the part about when the Gun-Gans were fighting the tanks and droids army."
"Well I am surprised to see as I read some of the reviews that a lot of people think the movie was ok rather then good. Thats about where I stand. As a whole it was ok, but there was just to many little things which brought it down. To name a few:  1. Acting - Though the main character acting was good the non main character acting was not. During the space battle towards the end the acting was rather dull. Unlike the first Star Wars where you were drawn into the fight I felt as an outsider during this battle.  2. Too much predictabilty. Yes I know it is a prequel and so you know what is going to happen but they over loaded it during this movie. An example being Anakin during the space battle. It seemed to easy for me that Anakin made it through that ships shields into the landing bay and manages to blow the ship up. Then just as the Jar Jar rase is about to die all the droids stop working.  I could go on but it would take too long. Overall Lucas put too much time into special effects and not in plot. Unfortunately most people will not agree with me because it's Star Wars."
"Star Wars fanatics won't like this opinion. I'm a life-long sci-fi fan and was extremely disappointed in The Phantom Menace. It does include nifty digital effects, and perhaps that was Lucas' primary goal. But as I sat watching the movie, it didn't take long (opening credits and scene, actually), before I started asking, &quot;Haven't we done this all before?&quot;  The similarities between the plot of the Phantom Menace and the plot of Star Wars and Empire are many. I will only name a few here, and I will try to do it without spoiling anything for readers who have not yet watched the movie: queen/princess in trouble; Tattoine kid who wants a new life; need to obtain a ship to leave Tattoine; death of Jedi teacher at hands of symbol of Dark Side; ship needing to &quot;thread the needle&quot; to blow up bigger ship; ending victory celebration/ceremony. And those are just a FEW examples.  Worse, perhaps, than the similarities (after all, Lucas had to return us to the Star Wars universe and there will be similarities) was the utter lack of imagination in creating the aliens. That's right, LACK of imagination. Look at it this way: If you had to come up with a villain who was more evil than Darth Vader (a great villain, IMO), then what would be the most stereotypical concept you could create? Can you say, &quot;SATAN!&quot; Darth Maul looks like the devil. Big deal. Where is the creativity in that?  Want more? Consider the various aliens. There has been a minor stir over the accents and appearance of aliens such as JarJar (the 'Rasta), the trade reps (WWII &quot;yellow menace&quot; Japanese voices) and the junk shop owner (crusty Jewish dealer). This flap could have been avoided if the aliens just acted, well, ALIEN! Why did Lucas give aliens Earth-based accents? Couldn't he have come up with something original that caused the viewer to think, &quot;Wow! Look at that! THAT is an alien!&quot;  One digital scene that has been praised by some is the pod race. For me, this was the most boring scene in the movie. Why? Because you KNEW the outcome. It was predictable. If the outcome of the race had been different, and the ship had then found a new, surprising way to get off the planet, THAT would have been some imagination. As it was, it was a waste of 5-10 minutes while you waited for the inevitable.  I won't even get into acting (often wooden), the annoying JarJar, the misuse of characters (Darth Maul was on screen for what, 5 minutes? And HE was supposed to be the tool of the Dark Side?) or other plot holes. And what is the big &quot;mystery&quot; over Darth Sidius? We know that the Emporer Palpatine is in the future. So who do you think Sidious is? Is there a senator named Palpatine? Why, yes, I guess there is. So where is the mystery?  Phantom Menace, in my opinion, is Disneyesque. It is big on hype and marketing and very short on plot and story. That's sad, when you consider what the original Star Wars trilogy was. But that was 20 years ago. This is a different culture, and Phantom fits right in .. shallow, glitzy and satisfying only to those with a short attention span and few critical thinking skills."
"Yes, The Phantom Menace finally passed the $300 million mark. Now everyone is asking `Will it sink Titanic? Will it become the number one movie of all times?'  I don't care about these concerns. I didn't care about the hype and the lineups before its release either. The only thing I cared about was when I was sitting in the theater and waiting for the movie to start, fans all around me, everyone was so exited. I was happy that I could be a part of this event just like the time I went to see Titanic. The film started, the story was explained in running credits on the screen and&#133; we were dumped right in the middle of it. Characters came and went, talked, fought, died, but I didn't feel anything.  Most of the cast weren't even humans. The ones who were weren't properly introduced. There was a race scene, which indubitably reminded me of `Ben-Hur'. The scenery was spectacular and I thought that they did a great job in terms of computer animation and FX. But what about a story? I was expecting so much that I felt a little down when the movie was over. So many questions were wriggling in my head: `Why didn' t they do more with Darth Maul when he had such chilling looks? Why was Ewan McGregor left out? Wasn't Obi-Wan an important character, didn't he deserve more introduction? What was all the fuss about JarJar Binks? He was neither understandable nor likable, just plain goofy? Was this a kid's movie? Then what are all these 40-year-olds doing here?  I guess I was disappointed because I expected too much. This wasn't supposed to be an impulsive movie. At least it looked really great and those under water chases and the pod-race were certainly a lot of fun. Maybe I should go to Disneyland and enjoy some rides! Maybe I was too emotional when I cried my heart out at the end of Titanic!"
"Something about PHANTOM MENACE seems unfinished.  With all the time and much of the money in the world, Lucas has fashioned a movie which engages the eye much more than the heart (except anger, perhaps justified, at the shameless exploitation manifest in Jar Jar Binks).  Palpatine is good as a sort of Iago, coming off as the most fully realized character -- which is not saying much.  Lucas was brave to make what is essentially a socio-political film about taxation and blockades, but he should have salted the thing with characters we might actually care about.  Nobody is bad here, but no one really has a chance to shine, either.  Harrison Ford jumped off the screen in the first -- er, fourth -- film, and Alec Guiness was very impressive; here, the players are rather dull and flat.  This hurts.  Perhaps all this will be more interesting in retrospect, when the second and third installments are released.  Still, the movie needs to be able to stand on its own, and this one, with some pleasures, is oddly lifeless."
"George Lucas seems to have made the mistake that is common these days, believing that special effects by themselves are entertainment.  There's no substitute for great characters and good dialogue and unfortunately this film has neither.  A shame when we can remember how charmed we were by Han Solo and Chewbacca and even the naivete of Luke Skywalker in the original. The latest in the series, which is actually where the story is meant to begin starts with such a convoluted story scroll that really young audience members will be at a loss from the start and seems to thrust us into the middle of the story that already well on its way.  Everyone takes themselves so seriously, or at least the humans do, that the film has a coldness about it that is quite alienating.  Contrasting with the humans are the computer-generated cartoon characters with a humour that is childish, a hit with the young ones perhaps but not so entertaining for a wider age group.  Liam Neeson brings a nice weight to his character, and Natalie Portman is beautiful and graceful in her role, but Ewan McGregor seems uncomfortable as Obi-Wan Kenobi.  Occasionally actually boring - the trip to the planet for spare parts goes on forever - vastly overdesigned and ultimately not in keeping with the spirit of the 'force' in the final sword fight, this Episode 1 of Star Wars is ultimately a disappointment."
"This was a disappointing movie.  While I feel that the original Star Wars was one of the best films I've ever seen, this one is a waste of time. There's a saying that's been around in the computer industry for some years: Garbage in garbage out.  No matter how good a computer and computer program you have, if your data is worthless, your output will be worthless.  In spite of all the wonderful special effects and computer animation in this movie, the fact that it has a silly story ruins it.  Watching this movie is like playing a video game that's rigged so you know you can't lose."
"What a disappointment! Yes, the special effects were sensational and the production quality was awesome, resulting in a visual and auditory feast (which summarizes every compliment anyone here has given the movie), but so what? People seem to think that's all a STAR WARS movie should be, but it's not. If the first movie hadn't had memorable characters, mythic overtones, and a bunch of great lines, it would have been just another mediocre sci-fi special-effects movie, rather than the classic that it is.  So what does this movie have? Memorable characters? There are only two non-cardboard characters in this entire movie: Anakin and his mother. Everyone else is just a chess-piece being moved around as needed. Mythic overtones? This movie felt like a video game with speaking parts. And forget about the memorable lines.  Even the special effects seemed lacking at times (blasphemy!). Isn't it amazing that the ships can land in a forest without disturbing a single tree? Then you have all the CGI characters, who end up looking exactly the same--not exactly a way to achieve suspension of disbelief.  I thought George Lucas was special because he had figured out that fights, battle scenes, and pretty scenery are meaningless if you don't care about the characters and what's happening to them. I'm sorry to find out that I was wrong."
"This movie must be the most-hyped event in my lifetime (episodes II and III will probably produce even more).  While it was enjoyable, it does not merit the hysteria and fanaticism surrounding it.  It was hardly spectacular. It's just a movie, and with the possible exception of the cast and crew, nobody's life is going to be any the different for it.  It does not even seem to contain a message of any sort, as one might expect.  Great praise has been heaped upon the special effects, but in some ways, these may actually hurt the movie.  One source stated that about half the movie is composed of special effects.  Jar Jar, the droids, and most other alien creatures were computer-generated.  This is quite apparent given their cartoony appearance.  Compare Star Wars's aliens with those of say Star Trek, which appear to be real, living, breathing creatures.  The acting is superb for what the movie is.  Neeson, McGregor, Portman, and Lloyd portrayed their characters well, and I'm sure we can expect great work from all four in the future.  No one can fault the casting here."
"Too much like Jedi The first two movies had a darker sinister quality that was left out of the third movie.  Jedi still worked because the stand off with Vader.  Moll is no Vader and Sidios isn't showing much yet.  The pod race was too predictable, there was no sexy female and not swashbuckling good guy.  I know who I was supposed to root for but after that underwater scene I didn't think I needed to.  It looked like they had it all under control."
"Okay, let's face it. Judging with any cinematographic criteria, this movie should never have been put on the screens. Frankly, I personally feel insulted by George Lucas.  What bugs me it this movie will be a huge massive success only because of the name. The plot, acting and editing are abysmal. The characters are pathetic. The one-liners are laughable. The only thing that would justify this movie is the special effects, but even those I found lacking. Yoda, for instance, is less life-like than in the early 80s.(!)  And even if the effects were up to par, JarJar's annoying presence and the childish story and lines would still make this a very bad cinema experience. The rating for this movie are inflated high, I have the suspicion people have voted before they saw the movie, or just to het Star wars movies in the top 100. sigh If I never see this movie again, it will be too soon."
"Hype.  Too much hype.  Not enough time behind the pen.  We don't care about special effects.  When will they get it?  It's fluff, do it when it makes sense, stop writing scenes around it.  And a 10 minute pod race? What the? A great trumpet player could hold a high E for 60 seconds, that doesn't make it art.  Lose the weird alien versions stereotypes of earth, e.g. Jamaican Jar-Jar, Asian Traders, and Italian Junk man.  That's just stupid-creepy. A tip for Lucas, who wouldn't listen, although he has more money than the Pope and could afford to take a chance at losing marketing:  Write dialogue, develop the characters, give your main bad guy a speaking part.  Give your main good guys  a chance to act with out S-FX help.  Lucas sold my childhood, but the Wachowski Bros. bought it from him. See the Matrix.  THE MATRIX, I promise you, The matrix is the new Star Wars. But good luck finding an action figure for it.  The Matrix doesn't have Ewoks.  If you like the mythology Star Wars is based on, you'll love the Matrix.  The Matrix.  See it.  Right now.  Or, better yet.  Do like I did and go see it right after you see Phantom Menace... it'll cheer ya up!"
"Juvenile, clumsy, self-referential, self-congratulatory, overly sentimental, heavy handed, and completely lacking in mystery, majesty, and romance...Unfortunately these words apply to George Lucas' latest installment of the Star Wars series, The Phantom Menace.  There is little menace: the most threatening character, Darth Maul, appears in very little of the movie and only at predictable moments and threatens only the two Jedi at the center of this story--if one can call it that.  Since one of the Jedi is Obi-Wan, we know harm will come to him, leaving only the question of when the other Jedi, Liam Neeson's Qui-Gon Jinn, will meet his end.  There is no phantom (even if you are incapable of recognizing the thinly disguised voice of the future evil Emperor and have forgotten the story line of the first three Star Wars installments) because director/writer Lucas all but tells you who the Phantom Menace is in the penultimate scene with a contrived discussion of the pair-wise nature of evil Siths and a finger-pointing close-up.  The story itself is basically an uninspired recycle of the original Star Wars movie (with a few light saber scenes from ESB and RoJ).  There is a desperate attack by out gunned one-manned, one-R2'ed fighters against a formidable space ship (which incidentally looks like a small Death Star wrapped in a partially eaten doughnut), a young Jedi is brutally left to fend for himself, and light sabers clash in towering darkly lit power shafts.  As in the original, a planet's future is at risk, the good guys face a dark force wielding henchman, a young male is rescued from obscurity on Tatooine and later attacks the aforementioned Death Doughnut, and a spunky royal female with outrageous hair styles acts tough.  One could forgive re-using a successful formula, but Lucas ruins a good plot line by removing any shred of plausibility from this version: the young Anakin Skywalker is barely old enough to walk on two legs let along in the sky, and his secret origin is just to much to take.  Queen Amidala is barely old enough to baby-sit and it is hard to believe that she knows more about strategy and tactics than her generals.  To add insult to injury, Lucas replaces the witty repartee between R2D2 and C3PO that provided the comic relief in the first series with the klutzy bumblings of a juvenile slapstick fool who is far from lovable and who contributes nothing to the plot unlike the famous robotic pair.  The final nail in the coffin is the simplistic and juvenile dialog and, aside from Neeson, Ewan McGregor, and Yoda, extremely poor acting.  The only consistently good aspects of the movie are the sets and 'droid designs, but even these are not fully exploited to set a mood or an ambiance.  Lucas has apparently forgotten what made his earlier movies great: a story full of romance and adventure with characters we could relate to and cheer for."
"Let me guess, this is the greatest movie since Titanic.  Well, you know what? Titanic sucked too!  And for a lot of the same reasons.  Strip away the special effects (yes the visuals were great, but the much ballyhooed sound did not come close to that of Saving Private Ryan) and you get an utter piece of crap.  An immense waste of the talents of Liam Neeson, Ewan Mcgregor and Samuel Jackson.  Why doesn't George Lucas either learn to write dialogue or hire someone who can?  Almost any Grade 7 student could have written this movie.  Jar Jar Binks and his whole race were an annoyance.  Darth Maul appeared only enough to find his way on to countless T-shirts and action figure aisles at Wal-Mart.  I think this is some kind of profit deal! (sarcasm).  Sure, go see it.  Turn your brain off.  Enjoy it if you want to.  But don't ever try to tell me that this is a great movie.  You'd only be deluding yourself.  Whew, I feel better now."
"My advice to those who have not seen the movie is to show up late, really late.  The first 90% of the movie is garbage, but the final lightsaber battle is probably the coolest of the series.  Any criticism you have read or heard about is probably true."
"Star Wars Episode 1: The Phantom Menace is a seriously miscalculated effort, marred by plodding, lifeless storytelling, dull and annoying characters, and a totally misplaced emphasis on digital effects over substance. It had a few moments of greatness, but a few great moments don't make a great film.  Now that Austin Powers 2 has stomped TPM in weekend U.S. box-office receipts, The discussion of the film's merits and flaws can be made with more force. It's apparent that moviegoers are voting with their feet, and have chosen Austin Powers 2 as their favorite-- A film with a narrative structure every bit as incoherent and inconsequential as The Phantom Menace but far more entertaining. Anyone who has observed the markedly different audience reactions of these films knows what I'm talking about.  The thing George Lucas miscalculated was his audience base. I think he aimed TPM to a very young audience, leaving his diehard fans and the 18-to-25 moviegoer feeling cheated. It's very telling when fans (or anyone with a good sense for narrative storytelling) suggest changes and improvements to the narrative that are invariably more satisfying that what George has offered. And even then, I personally know a few younger viewers that were bored with the whole affair-- Anakin, Jar-Jar, the Jedi Knights, everything-- after 2 screenings.  George had every single reason and resource to make a film that could have been a thoroughly entertaining motion picture-- one that, by rights, should have transcended the bounds of the normal summer-film paradigm and filled every theatre seat all summer long. He had sixteen years, hundreds of millions of dollars, and a wide, loyal fan base that could have spread positive word-of-mouth and seen it over and over again. As far as I'm concerned, he squandered the immense goodwill of the millions of Star Wars fans on a film that could only be unconditionally loved by raving fanatics or the undiscriminating. And, yes I know it's still a huge hit, over $300,000,000 and counting, but that's the unbelievable hype talking.  It's instructive to go back and read some of the 1200+ film comments on this film, because every single one of them reflect the universal disappointment anyone who sees TPM feels. Speaking broadly, people react to disappointment two ways: they get bitter or they get defensive. There are lots of bitter, angry, or sad reactions in this collection of comments... this one included.  It's an incredible testament to the loyalty of Star Wars fans that many are willing unpaid apologists for Lucasfilm Ltd. You can tell the reactions of an apologist when you read (or hear) the following phrases:  &quot; He [George Lucas] is just holding back something for the sequel. I can't wait for Episode 2!&quot;  &quot; It's a kid's film-- you shouldn't judge it like a film for grownups.&quot;  &quot; No film ever made could live up to the hype this one had.&quot;  &quot;The thrill Star Wars created in us as children is impossible to recapture.&quot;  Without discussing the merits of these arguments, these are the reactions of people just as disappointed as those who were embittered, but instead react with prickly defensiveness. Like I said, as totally dissonant as such reactions are from most people's experience actually seeing The Phantom Menace, you have to admire their loyalty."
"&quot;The Phantom Menace&quot; is worth seeing for the effects (and I doubt that most fans *care* whether it's worth seeing or not) but the plot is a big mess, the characterization is profoundly weak, and the climactic battle scene -- four battles! count them, four! -- proves that more is not always better."
"I liked the movie, but I wish George Lucas would stop worshipping special effects so much.  What made the first two installments great was that we knew the characters.  The original starts off with a bang, but we then get to know the main characters for the rest of the movie.  Lucas was able to blend the action with an actual story.  Here, it appears that he bought into his own hype.  Star Wars is no religion, no matter how much some people want to believe.  He takes a little bit from each major religion and comes up with the force.  The Senate scenes are wonderful and could be so interesting, but Lucas seems to be too anxious to get back to the war. It's a truly fun movie to see, but it could be more.  A little more humanity and less computerization would enhance the future efforts."
"Plotholes the size of antartica, dialogues not exceeding the height of your average sidewalk, and non human characters more horrific than Alien.  It will disappoint; the effects are not enough to make you think why Lucas couldn't come up with something decent after 20 years of deliberation.  Does this prequel contribute any information to the series we need for part II? Better still, lets do a requel first!!  3/10."
"The Phantom Menace blows.  Cartoonish and gangly, this latest endeavor from The Lucas Emporium, Inc. seemed to think it was such a sparkling epic that it could easily afford to overlook such pass&eacute; film staples as plot, acting, and dialogue, none of which make an appearance anywhere in the movie.  Too dependent on the &quot;cuteness&quot; of the omnipresently and incomprehensibly irksome Jar Jar Binks (oh, but what a great action figure he'll make!), the visual spectacle of its overworked digital landscapes (like something from the pages of a &quot;Where's Waldo&quot; book), and the dubious believability of the stone-faced, deadpan performance of Natalie Portman as Queen Abidala (did these actors get to create their own accents?), the movie falls limply and quite disappointingly short of its cult-classic predecessors.  The adorable little lead actor and the light-saber scenes (which looked like replays of the Luke/Vader fights with more money dumped into them) did little to float this barge.  Perhaps the robotic Portman -- who had as many facial expressions as the sharpshooting battledroids -- would have been better cast as a droid herself.  Even the pivotal race sequence looked over-produced and under-thought, which proved to be the theme for the entire film.  At the end though, it had the definite taste of a prequel, and it did leave me with a strong hunch that better things are to come.  Meanwhile, however, I can only recommend this movie to the die-hardest of &quot;Star Wars&quot; zealots, much as I'd recommend &quot;Star Trek V&quot; to trekkies."
"This movie seems to fall victim to one of the most common Sci-Fi maladies. Essentially, the drama and character development are absent to make room for loads of bells and whistles.  Maybe I'm being unfair, since I actually enjoyed the visual aspects of the film and the action sequences. I wish that this movie had been more like The Empire Strikes Back instead of trying to miraculously resolve all of the conflicts at once in the last ten minutes. It's very unsatisfying. Did they simply replace Ewoks with Lizards. Yup. If I were under 12, this probably would have been my favorite movie ever (as A New Hope once was).  The fundamental problem - most people expected way too much from this movie.  If you had no complaints about the rampant inconsistencies in DUNE, the nonexistent character delevopment, and general betrayal of every satisfying quality in a story for an intriguing visual experience, then I unreservedly recommend The Phantom Menace to you."
"I'd give this movie a 5 out of 10.  In a nutshell it was a movie of extreme qualities (both terrific and horrible) which wound up canceling each other out, leaving me with an impression of averageness.  I'm a Star Wars fan (so I'm naturally inclined to cut the film some slack) but for the price of a theater ticket these days I'd prefer to see a movie with a little more emphasis and care in writing and acting."
"Well, I went into this movie as an avid Star Wars fan, fully expecting to be as disappointed by this movie as I was by ESB and ROJ. And, in this respect, I was not disappointed.  From the very beginning, I realized how contrived everything felt. By the end of the movie I was still waiting for a significant plot to develop, but it never did. So I asked myself &quot;what was the plot?&quot; ... and yes, I did come up with what all of this movie's defenders came up with. But I quickly realized that the whole thing was just an excuse for George Lucas to play with his special effects team. And he did a good job of it.  It's just too bad that the rest of the movie, to be blunt, is terrible. It took me all of about 10 seconds to figure out who the bad guy is after he was introduced (and I avoided nearly all of the pre-movie hype) - although I will admit that this actually passed by the person I saw this with, as they were not as &quot;into&quot; the Star Wars mythology as I am. The characters were, well, boring.  I will admit that I'll still see the rest of this prequel's sequels. Probably for the same reason that I read all of the stupid books based on Star Wars- I got addicted when I was 7 back in the 70's and can't shake it."
"Time Magazine had it right when they called this disjointed, uninspiring mess the Phantom Movie. I don't remember an action adventure film of the Lucas caliber falling this flat. If you want special effects that's one thing, but this one really offers more than anyone would ever want, it's almost insulting, that's all there is to this Lucas monstrosity. The jokes weren't even the slightest bit witty and after an hour and a half I couldn't take the spoon fed plot (what plot there was) and the gobbledygook dialogue from that stupid horse headed baffoon of a character any longer--so I did what I almost never do, I walked out. The flat unconvincing dialogue from the rest of the crew was also a  real surprise. I didn't give a lick about what was happening to the Jedis, the little boy or anybody else, and that's too bad b/c what Star Wars was supposed to do-I thought-was get you on the edge of your seat. A real snoozer......"
"Having enjoyed the first 3 films, I was deeply disappointed by the Phantom Menace. To me, it appeared as a Kid's TV spin-off from the orginal Star Wars films. Alternatively, a 2 hour intro to a PlayStation game. It was basically an animated film, and in that respect, I felt it looked less visually impressive than certainly episodes V/VI. CGI can be an effective tool, but must be used sparingly. James Camerom recognised this with Titanic by using real models, as large as possible, to create a degree of realism. Like PM, those parts of Titanic that fail are the brief sections that use straight CGI. The mind is not fooled; instead, the mind thinks it is seeing a painting (which it is). The sense of depth and chaos expressed by the fight scene in Return of the Jedi easily outweighed the pastel Fx of PM. But Fx are just one aspect. The story was p.poor. Hardly the start of a Saga. Why can't George L escape American Apple Pie? Why does Anakin have to be a cute kid? Why couldn't he be a little s*d who shows signs of being bad? I have read that the British actors involved in the film were most disconcerted during the acting phase, since most of the time they were stuck in front of a blue screen. I love film music and by and large John Williams turns out a good score - occasionaly pappy if in the hands of a Spielberg film - but usually quite bold and striking. The score here, which seemed to be mainly choral work, was very lack-lustre. The highlight for me was spotting Ralph Brown (alias Danny the drug-dealer from Withnail &amp; I) as the space-craft pilot. What this film needed was an adult them and the darkness of ESB injected into it. Why couldn't it have been nasty? The underlying story of the Empire is nasty, so why not portray that. I now no longer care a hoots about II and III. They can come and go as far as I am concerned. Is it me, or are people starting to bore of CGI. I watched Sam Raimi's &quot;A Simple Plan&quot; 2 days later, and for me, that film was infinitely better than Star Wars. George Lucas: grow up, look around the American Pie country you live in and realise that it's not all suburbia and zit-free. We can handle something nasty. Drop the pastel shades and give us something earthy and gritty. Alternatively, hand II and III over to someone like Tim Burton who may be able to salvage something from the disaster of Episode I."
"I was really disappointed when I saw &quot;Phantom Menace&quot;.  Maybe it was too long since &quot;Star Wars&quot; and I've grown older and wiser.  It just seemed to be a pointless cartoon.  The technology ain't there yet for replacing good actors; or any actors for that matter.  If this is the kind of movie that turns on the public (Probably 99% from USA) instead of a movie like &quot;Limbo&quot; (which seems to have confounded Hollywood), then we're lost."
"I'm a huge fan of the original, but Phantom Menace seemed to me a cold, uninvolving picture about its own special effects.  I didn't care about any of the characters, if you can call them characters.  Anakin Skywalker didn't seem to have any of the fear or anger he should have, and the Jedi knights have nothing to say.  As for Jar Jar Binks ... must KILL."
"After 16 years of waiting, boy was I ever disappointed.  I saw the first Star Wars when I was 6 years old and it always holds a special place in my heart.  This new Star Wars movie was in my opinion a &quot;fundamentally&quot; bad piece of film making.  Special effects...Yatta yatta...In 1999 they should be good.  If you go into this movie as I did, with the love of classic movies in mind (Story, script, acting) you will be very disappointed.  If on the other hand you are say from the &quot;MTV&quot; generation, you may love the flashy &quot;Muppet show&quot; it has become.  I work for a company that does special effects, so I appreciate nice graphics like everyone else. However when the integrity of a movie goes down, and you lose a certain human element, that's where I draw the line.  To close, I left the theatre very angry with a feeling of being cheated.  I had to go buy myself a nice dinner at Tony Romas, just to get the taste of the movie out of my mouth.  Anyway at least your kids will enjoy it."
"Gotta say I'm very disappointed. The story was thin, at best. A dispute over trade routes? Geez, that's C-SPAN material. The acting was awful, the (human) characters bland, and the pace of the movie was very rushed. From scene to irrelevant/drawn-out scene, one watches this film without ever being connected to it. Emotionally empty, this film was never more than a series of action sequences."
"After preparing for a mediocre movie with lots of hype, I was still sorely disappointed.  The CG was fantastic however; the plot was convoluted beyond recovery, the casting was terrible, the acting was stiff, and the editing was, well, was there any? The soundtrack was forgettable, the villain was funnier than the comic relief and there were no specifically memorable lines or scenes.  When is the next ST TNG movie due out?"
"Episode IV - it is not... I am a huge Star Wars fan - unlike most current viewers, I've seen them all at the theater when originally released - and was hoping for a lot more, especially after all the hype. The special effects of the movie are incredible, but the storyline was very weak. You never feel close to any of the main characters and there isn't the humor that the original trilogy had. Of course, as everyone is saying, Jar Jar Binks is the most annoying, child-pandering character George Lucas has ever created... its as if he's trying to entertain toddlers who are fans of Barney or Teletubbies... I just hope episodes II &amp; III return to the original strength of the trilogy."
"I have never commented on the IMDb before but after seeing the rating of 8 this... thing... got I really have to put in my two cents.  First off, I'm stunned nobody has commented on the ridiculous notion that Anakin Skywalker -- later to become Darth Vader -- built C3P0.  You'd think when R2D2 and C3P0 crash on Tatooine at the beginning of the first &quot;Star Wars&quot; they'd remember they had been there before, or at least when Luke Skywalker buys them, C3P0 would recall beeing created by someone with the same last name!!! Worse -- let's talk drama: how can you feel any suspense for your heroes when they outnumber the bad guy?  The fight between Neeson, McGregor and Darth Maul is completely stacked in the Jedis favor.  First, Maul is just an apprentice; second, we've never seen him fight before so we have no idea how good or powerful he is; third, it's two against one!  Worse: Jar Jar. Does anyone understand a word this character says?  Does anyone even care?  And yes, he's a black stereotype, just as the bumbling Trade Federation duo are asian stereotypes and the fly-creature is an Arab.  Ugh.  Worse: our big hero, Anakin Skywalker, is nick-named &quot;Annie.&quot;  Annie!  No wonder he turned evil.  And he's played by the worse child actor on the planet.  Not that the pros are any better.  Portman and Neeson must have had a contest on who could be more wooden, McDarmid is a weasel with none of the menace the Emperor should have, McGregor looks really lost and the Darth Maul guy could have been great if he was in the movie for more than 30 seconds.  Thinking back, I believe he only has three lines two of which are &quot;Yes, master.&quot; What else?  Oh, we're trapped in Tatooine for two-thirds of the movie and tortured with an endless space-chariot race ripped out of &quot;Ben-Hur&quot; that has minimal bearing on the rest of the plot.  This movie could have been great, should have been great, and it woudn't have taken much.  It would have been terrific if it was directed by George Lucas of &quot;Star Wars&quot; and &quot;American Grafitti.&quot;  Instead it was directed by the Lucas who created &quot;Howard The Duck&quot; and &quot;Radioland Murders&quot;."
"No plot. No humor. No beautiful landscapes. Poor dialogues. Ridiculous creatures (jar jar). This is a bad movie for kids. I really enjoyed the trilogy, because it contained all the elements of a good sci-fi movie : hi-tech (not too much), space and stars, imaginary, poetry, dream, aestheticism, a quest for the good against the evil, a reflection on the consequences of an excessive technology... all that is not present in the Phantom Menace. It's just a way to show the talents of some engineers (they are talented, actually), and to make money, of course."
"Now cmon, I agree with the many who have bravely voiced their disapproval of this movie. I feel much of what made the orginal trilogy special has lost in the technology and special effects. Instead of detailed models of starships and great looking costumes of startroopers and wookies, animation is now the overtone of this film. It has no human quality to it, with little attention paid to the character interaction and more of a DieHard or Leathal Weapon feeling. More attention was paid to that pathetic JarJar than Obi Wan... what is wrong with this picture?  I have talked in chat rooms, and being only 21, I feel old. People are saying how it was so much better than the originals... now any REAL fan would know this simply isn't true. I feel a connection to these movies, having grown up with them. They opened the door of science fiction to me like no other movie could've done. They draw you in with their character development and human faces. I just simply could not identify with any off the charaters (or cartoons, depending on who we're talking about). They cheapened the movie experience with this new technology.  I know many would say to me - Get with it, times are a changing. But it should be unlawful to desecrate a series such as Star Wars with this. The technology used in the originals was for their time period ground- breaking, original, and captivating. However, I don't see the new film as not even being  close to this status, being a cross between Star Wars and Toy Story.  I voted this movie a 4 solely because it bears the name &quot;Star Wars&quot;. The only thing I appreciated was seeing Yoda and the origins of Darth Vader. Otherwise... well, it saddens me. I just hope the next two make up for what this movie lacks.  - An old-school Die-hard Trilogy fan"
"It was quite clear that Lucas &amp; Co. were so in love with the idea of CGI that they failed to notice that the original Star Wars characters have far more dimension than these flat (both in appearance and quality) characters ever did. The effects in the old movies were actually more convincing and interesting. The only characters that were at all likeable were - surprise - R2D2 and C3PO. (Thank the Lord they didn't CGIfy R2D2! And don't get me started on that awful Jar Jar creature.) As for the writing, the story was apparently none of our business. I would like my $6 back."
"I must say that I expected much more than fluff and flash.  The dialog was strained and lacking, the characters were uninspiring, and the special effects overpowering.  Mr. Lucas should be ashamed for putting out such trash."
"For over twenty years I have truly loved the original Star Wars trilogy seeing each one at least 3 times in the theatre and endless times on video. Characters of substance whom I cared about blended with marvelous special effects to produce a true classic. That is Star Wars , &quot;The Phantom Menace &quot; is not. There is not a character here one cares for. Scotsman McGregor and Irishman Nessson are forced to adopt British accents for their role as Jedi Knights. Neeson sounds bored and McGregor come off sounding like Sir Hillary Whittittle. With their bored new age platitudes they seem less guardians of the universe than organic tofu salesman. The so called comic relief of Jar Jar is best left forgotten. One would of thought that the civil rights movement had banished such blatant stereotyping. Comments about Anakin Skywalker will be left out lest I be accused of child abuse. The pod race sequence is a rip off of the chariot race from &quot;Ben Hur&quot; right down to John Williams composing a Miklos Rozaish Roman march. The look of the film is spectacular but the core and substance of this film, the thing that made the originals classics, is glaringly hollow. Mr. Lucas has revealed another side of the Force. There is the light, the dark and now the boring. Stick with the originals."
"1.  A number of the aliens in the movie are blatantly racist. 2.  Action begins too quickly at the beginning.  Come on, this is the first movie!  You gotta have at least a little more set up other than the words that scroll up. 3.  In &quot;A New Hope&quot;, Obi-Wan didn't know who R2-D2 was even though they had plenty of scenes together in &quot;The Phantom Menace&quot;.  R2-D2 should have been left out of this movie.  Any droid could have been in his place. 4.  Also, in &quot;A New Hope&quot;, C-3PO didn't recognize Tattooine even though, according to &quot;The Phantom Menace&quot;, it's his home planet.  I doubt he'd forget that, after all, he's a protocol droid.  He shouldn't have been in this movie, either.  It's obvious Lucas put him in so we could see Artoo and Threepio meet. 5.  Anakin built C-3PO.  So let me get this straight:  In &quot;The Empire Strikes Back&quot; we found out that Vader is Luke's father.  Then, in &quot;Return of the Jedi&quot; we found out that Leia is Luke's sister.  Now, in &quot;The Phantom Menace&quot; we find out that C-3PO is Luke's half-brother.  What is this, sci-fi soap opera? 6.  The odds that R2-D2 flew with both Anakin and Luke are ridiculous. Another reason Artoo should have been omitted from episode one. 7.  Too much Jar Jar Binks. 8.  Not enough Darth Maul. 9.  At the beginning, the two Jedis demonstrate that they can hold their breath for a long time.  A little later in the movie, when they go swimming, they pull out these handy-dandy &quot;breathalizers&quot; for underwater breathing. I find it hard to believe the Jedi find it necessary to carry stuff like that around with them all the time if they have the ability to hold their breath so long. 10. Boss Nass does this stupid Jackie Gleason mimicry.  If he was in it as much as Jar Jar, he'd be even more annoying. 11. There's this 2-headed alien named Fode-Beed who's too &quot;contemporary American&quot;.  Kind of like the genie in &quot;Aladdin&quot;, he just doesn't fit in because his persona is such a sign of the times. 12. In the other movies, Darth Vader appears to have an English accent (even after the helmet comes off) while in &quot;The Phantom Menace&quot;, young Anakin is obviously a Yankee. 13. Too much use of the word &quot;Yippee!&quot; 14. People keep calling Anakin &quot;Ani&quot;.  I kept waiting for him to start singing &quot;The sun'll come ooouuut tomorrow...&quot; 15. In one scene, a battle droid uses binoculars.  If it's a robot, why not just make the binoculars built-in? 16. There was no set-up before the climatic space battle.  One minute, they're fighting on the planet, the next, they're fighting in space.  Even &quot;Empire&quot; had a quick 30-second &quot;here's what we're gonna do&quot; before the snow speeder battle.  In &quot;Phantom&quot;  I didn't even know what they were trying to accomplish until they accomplished it. 17. The difference between people in alien costumes and computer animated aliens is too obvious.  When they're combined, they both look equally fake. 18. Yoda looks too different.  Why didn't they just use the same puppet? If he's 900 years old, I doubt he'd look so different between 30 years.  He looks phonier, too. 19. Certain characters were too cartoony.  Sure, they looked cool, but they looked more like they belonged in &quot;A Bug's Life&quot; rather than a live action movie. 20. The whole movie was basically  one long toy/video game commercial with talented performers wasted at the mercy of special effects. 21. Anakin &quot;accidentally&quot; blows up the Federation ship. 22. The whole Padme/Amidalla role reversal is confusing. 23. Anakin is an immaculate conception of the Force.  Oh, puh-leeze! 24. The notion that organic particles make up the Force cheapens the whole mysticism.  That's a &quot;Star Trek&quot; move. 25. Qui-Gonn &quot;hangs on&quot; after being impaled through the chest by a light saber."
"Amazing vision is what we expect from George Lucas, and he doesn't disappoint. Yet if this man would just spend a few trivial dollars AWAY from the cinematography, he could get his dialogue rewritten to be, well, acceptable.  I'm a fan of &quot;Star Wars&quot;, and a huge fan of &quot;The Empire Strikes Back&quot;, but I didn't like &quot;Return of the Jedi&quot;. This new &quot;old&quot; chapter in the story contains many of the problems that &quot;Return of the Jedi&quot; did: its dialogue is wooden, the actors are not given proper direction, and there is no continuity to the story.  Yet these are not the biggest problems. The biggest problem is that we basically don't know the characters. Is there anyone who didn't know, 20 minutes into &quot;Star Wars&quot;, who Luke Skywalker was and wanted to be? Yet in this movie, we never learned anything about the motivations of Qui-Gon Jinn, Darth Maul, Obi-Wan Kenobi, or, most importantly, Anakin Skywalker (although he was SLIGHTLY more developed).  We're supposed to like Anakin because he's a kid and he's a slave and he's amazing. We're supposed to like Qui-Gon Jinn because he's a Jedi and because he likes Anakin. We're supposed to hate Darth Maul, but the only reason I can figure that out is because he's, well, ugly. That's not character development.  If so much time in this movie wasn't devoted to Jar Jar Binks, a most annoying, wretched character, there would have been plenty of time to develop everyone else's character. This, more than anything, spoiled the movie for me.  Yet, I'm glad to have seen it. It was a stunning vision and contained the best Jedi battle of all the movies to date. An unbelievable pod race sequence was brilliantly done. The effects were, of course, peerless.  But George, next time you do a movie, have your dialogue ghost-written and leave Jar Jar on the cutting room floor: Meesa  find Jar Jar very bad, very bom-bad. And stop playing to the kiddie audience: that's not how &quot;Star Wars&quot; attracted viewers!"
"I went into Phantom wanting to judge this film more lightly than I usually would, but there are just too many glaring flaws in construction:  (1) obvious and flat in the entire Tatooine thread  (2) uninspired action sequences--e.g., pod race (Ben Hur did it much better), droid shoot outs, closing battle w/ Gungans  (3) an interesting but labyrinthine political thread  (4) choppy editing (refer to Qui Gon Jin-Darth Maul showdown (which I _did_ like))  (5) lifeless and unconvincing character acting (with Neeson being the _only_ exception)  (6) an appalling attempt to demystify the Force  (7) blatant story retreads from ROTJ--e.g., (7a) Princess in white giving an award to the heroes, (7b) space battle won with two torpedoes; (7c) seemingly overmatched battle between &quot;savage&quot; natives and a technologically-advanced opposing force, (7d) the insufferable Jar-Jar Binks' equivalency to Ewoks, (7e) a vanquished enemy flailing down a (seemingly) bottomless pit, etc.)  (8) a weak presence of Evil (Palpatine is not made significant; Darth Maul is barely present)  (9)not to mention a story that stops cold in the theatre three times.  With all of that, I simply could not give Phantom more than a &quot;C+&quot;, and could not imagine any adult (who sees this film) being any less forgiving. To put it plainly, I found TPM neither fun nor up to snuff."
"In Phantom Menace, Anakin's mother says he was born w/o a father. I can't remember exactly what they said (I only saw it once, not my best movie going experience.)It does resemble the immaculate conception of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, but Anakin is Darth Vader, am I right?  Darth Vader is on the Dark side, right? Darth Vader use the 'force' to hurt others, right? Hmm, I don't remember any of that in my daily bible studies. So, according to the movie, and viewers making the same assumption as aga. somethings gonna happen in episodes 2 and 3 that's gonna make Jesus become part of the evil dark side. So, Jesus will turn away from us sometime in the future. Ouch. If Jesus was gonna turn away from us, why would he have sacrifieced himself? Maybe I'm getting a little carried away but I think Lucas did so as well, writing that plot in. Agaluro, I wasn't trying to knock you- your comment just struck a nerve I feel that many will see that spot the same way you did, and it hurts being a believer of Jesus."
"The Phantom Menace was sorry.  George Lucas has shown no growth as a filmmaker over the last twenty years but has increased his dependence on special effects to hide a lack of storytelling ability.  The Phantom Menace has poorly developed characters, no direction to its weak story and plenty of ethnic stereotypes.  One would think a veteran director in the 90s would be able to avoid such an ignorant crutch.  The movie gets off to a horrible start when we witness his supposedly japanese trade federation officers embarrass anyone in the theater with any racial sensitivity for about twenty minutes.  The Phantom Menace wasn't a letdown but it leaves a lot to be desired.  Nothing can be expected from Lucas who can't take his work in a different direction and seems to be satisfied by gaining money instead of respect."
"The action isn't as fast, the visual effects not as innovative or ground breaking.  But the movie, for the most part, is the most intelligent and realistic of the series.  It explains the &quot;science&quot; behind the force, though briefly and not very scientifically.  The most impressive aspect of the movie is its depiction of the economic, social, and political structure of the Star Wars universe.  There's also a clever little mystery in determining who the villain, the phantom menace, actually is.  Anybody out of junior high should be able to guess this, and it's all but given away at the end of the movie.  As for the negative aspects of the film:  The Darth Maul character is made to look like a demon, which brings in unnecessary and irrelevant religious overtones.  In addition, Lucas can't seem to get himself out of the good guys in white, bad guys in black clich&eacute;."
"Before I say anything else, the special effects are nothing short of spectacular. Besides them, however, the movie is sorely hurting in a number of areas. While I disagree with most critics' panning of Liam Neeson (I think his detachment is perfectly appropriate for a Jedi), George Lucan needs to hire a decent editor, Ewan McGregor is sadly underused, Jake Lloyd ranks about a 6 on the child-actor-annoyance scale, and I was ready to throttle Jar Jar Binks after about 2 minutes. Natalie Portman, however, was a very pleasant surprise, and Darth Maul kicked major heinie. The most, and by the time it was over with basically only, interesting thing about the movie was how it so blatantly set up the next two (I can't wait for Senator Palpatine to reveal himself as Darth Sidious and whack the whole Jedi Council). All that aside, it was great eye candy."
"Yes, George - plot really *does* matter.  For the most wildly anticipated movie of all time, &quot;The Phantom Menace&quot; is surprisingly inept, unengaging, sloppy and noxiously annoying.  Ignoring such matters as a coherent story line or vivid personality in favor of overdone, omnipresent and fake-looking special effects, George Lucas has essentially eradicated everything that made the first three films such classics.  There is no chemistry, no emotional pull, no sense of adventure or urgency; a bunch of things happen for no particular reason, and then the credits roll.  It's dull and flat, desperately in need of the Buck Rogers-style gee-whiz spirit of &quot;A New Hope&quot; or the darkness and rich texture of &quot;The Empire Strikes Back.&quot;  The movie looks tacky, the visuals don't mesh properly, and every scene lurches around until it fizzles out - there are a lot of awkward pauses to distract us from the God-awful dialogue.  And, despite a good cast, there is nary a character of interest - even Yoda has been rendered a simplistic cartoon, and the Jedi, oddly, have been de-mystified so much that Qui-Gon Jinn and Obi-Wan Kenobi seem like Batman &amp; Robin.  But, of course, everyone loves it - yet another automatic response engineered by Lucas' powerhouse marketing campaign.  A toxic embarrassment.  Score: 2 out of 10."
"I'd like to start by stating that I am not a Star Wars fan.  Thus, my views are incredibly biased and should not be given the same weight as a fan's views.  Also, I know that there is absolutely no excuse at all for not seeing this movie -- you just have to go.  You do not, however, have to like it -- and I really didn't.  1 -- I loved the scenes with almost nothing but computer animation, like a few of the battles, but the computer-animated characters didn't blend with the real actors at all.  It's very visually painful to see a person walking in shadows next to a character whose very animation style requires that he have spotlights on him at all times.  I feel that remote control creatures would have been superior in many instances.  2 -- Little Anakin Skywalker.  Yes, I know, I'm a horrible person for critiquing a little boy's acting style, and I know he'll probably turn out to be great one day, but he's not there yet.  The boy gives every single line in an &quot;Oh, wow&quot; tone of voice, whether the line calls for it or not. It's something I truly believe he'll grow out of, but if the kid can't handle the lines yet, don't give them to him.  Let his mother give more of his background or let things come up in conversations between the two Jedi Knights.  3 -- Once again, I'm a terrible, horrible person, but I absolutely loathed Jar Jar Binks.  I am far from a violent person, but after less than a minute of screen time, I wanted to tear the thing's ears off and walk out of the theater.  Maybe it's because I'm 18, but I found absolutely nothing redeeming about a character who skips along, spouting gibberish and doing incredibly annoying things, like eating random objects or sticking his head into energy beams.  I really hope he doesn't ever see a sequel...  I realize that none of this will (or should) stop anyone from seeing the film, but I just couldn't idly stand by while it got unanimously rave reviews from everyone I know.  Oh, and anyone who can recognize Natalie Portman will be completely unimpressed by one of the &quot;major&quot; plot twists."
"Going to see The Phantom Menace was at first exciting, but after the movie I felt rather disappointed. The script wasn't written well, and all the jokes were completely flat. In the beginning at least you could try to stifle a giggle, but later you yawn and wait for the flick to end. Obviously every outcome is laid out in front of you even before you sit down in the theater if you have seen the other three episodes. Once all the characters have been introduced our pre-introduced, you may as well predict what they will do. The special effects are stellar, though, showing what movie-makers are capable of showing. Originality has almost disappeared in this movie, and basically every alien has some similarity with anything else on TV or anywhere else. Personally I felt a bit uncomfortable for a rather foolish reason when the &quot;big battle&quot; was taking place with all those fancy ships and blasters. Where were the X- and Y-wings? When were those AT-ATs going to show up? The events of this movie obviously take place before all those well-known ships and objects were invented, but the &quot;old&quot; vehicles look pretty neat too. Episode I is the perfect example of how a prequel sets the stage for the rest of the acts. The end partly pulls you along into the fourth Episode, and the entire story line just flows. In the first Star Wars movie, the old characters who appear in Episode I actually tell of tiny things that actually happen in this film. The saga is truly shown and expressed, but without the heart and laughter as in the first movie. I feel Lucas is losing his touch, and I won't be surprised if Episodes II and III would be complete failures. The magic of Star Wars seems to be disappearing, and this film is the proof."
"&quot;Star Wars: Episode 1:The Phantom Menace&quot; was grossly overhyped.  I shall discuss the major problems in four main categories.  One, I hate Jar Jar!  Damn Jar Jar!  What were you thinking, Lucas, when you created Jar Jar?  This is no Chewie, my good man!  I think everyone understands the problems with him.  Two, Anakin was quite annoying.  &quot;Yippee!&quot; should not be heard in a sci-fi film.  I don't even think &quot;ET&quot; did that.  Also, the end was quite irritating; Anakin was ACCIDENTALLY destroying the Trade Federation at the same time that Jar Jar was ACCIDENTALLY destroying tons of droids...sigh...  Third, what is the deal with Amidala's makeup?  Is she a Kabuki actress in her spare time?  Fourth, Darth Maul was overhyped.  They made him sound really important to the story.  He's barely in it.  R2 has more screen time than him.  However, Lucas saved the film for me when he added one character: Sebulba. if it weren't for Sebulba, I would absolutely hate this film.  He was so awesome!!!  Pudu!!  Anyway, with Sebulba I give this movie 5 stars, but without I give it more like 3.  And as for Episodes 2 and 3...I have this advice for Lucas..  Try not...do or do not...there is no try...  Sadly, TPM's powers were weak."
"AAAAAAAGH!!!  Holy Cow this was a bad movie.  There were only two (count 'em - 2) scenes that made this movie bearable.  (1) The Tusken Raiders shooting at the racers.  (2) The swordfights at the end.  Otherwise, this movie was horrific.  God, I am so disappointed.  There have been so many science fiction movies that have relied soley on special effects instead of plot.  I consoled myself throughout those movies my knowing that Lucas was coming back to bring back great science fiction stories to the big screen.  I was so wrong.  This is a movie made for 10 year olds (and geeks who think like ten year olds).  CHRIST, EVEN DISNEY HAS FIGURED OUT HOW TO MAKE MOVIES THAT APPEAL TO BOTH CHILDREN AND ADULTS!  Can't Lucas do the same?  Where is the humor?  (Tongue numbing jokes are not funny to those older than about 10.)  Where is the humanity?  (What happened to Mama Anikan?  Is she to be a slave forever?  Do we all say &quot;Oh Well, the Force demanded it?!&quot;)  Where is the passion?  Why did I bother to spend hours downloading trailers?  Why did I bother spending hours reviewing the first three movies?  AAAAAAAGH!!!  (4/10)"
"An average rating of 8? Are you kidding me? Phantom Menace has some of the worst dialogue ever..I don't understand how the actors kept straight faces saying some of the things they did.  Even with the prodigious acting talent of Neeson and McGregor, the lines still came off sounding completely ridiculous.  And the character of Jar Jar...just that alone ruined the movie for me.  I was even a little insulted by the stereotype the character seemed to portray. not only does Jar Jar stereotype black people, the viceroys were a nasty stereotype of asians, and Anakin's owner, the shop-keeper, was an offensive characterization of latin people.  George Lucas' style of directing and his falir for screenwriting is completely dated, and so is Star Wars.  I will say the special effects were amazing, which saves the movie from being a complete waste of money."
"In brief, &quot;The Phantom Menace&quot; is a Muppet movie, without the charm.  The &quot;human&quot; performances are, for the most part, worse than a bad read through of a script,  with the kid being the best of the lot.  The movie does succeed on one front though.  After all, it is a motion picture, and to that end, it is filled with useless, tiresome, but colorful, motion."
"This movie was great.  The fight scenes were amazing, along with the special effects, but there was plenty of stuff the movie could have done without. First, the annoying Jar Jar character, and his whole race.  All they are is the digital, modern day equivalent of the Ewoks.  For a Star Wars movie, there was too much (attempted)slap stick humor, and it sort of ruined the tone of the movie.  Well, somebody has to say something bad about this movie."
"I will be one of the first to admit, the critics' (except for Roger Ebert) bashing of this film certainly lowered my expectations before going in. However, I am happy to report that it lived up to my prior expectations. I will also be one of the first to admit, that the film is not flawless.. but then, few are. Here then, are the high and low points of the movie.  Great Parts:  1) The pod race. An incredible sci-fi version of the Ben-Hur chariot race.  2) Acting. especially by Liam Neeson, and Ian McDiarmid, though the rest of the cast was quite good (everyone stop picking on poor Jake Lloyd! The poor kid was just 6 when the filmed this).  3) The final sabre duel between Maul, Qui-Gon, and Obi-Wan. I have never seen a duel so amazing in any other movie.  4) The most obvious - The effects were astounding  5) John Williams's new score, &quot;Duel of Fates&quot; is wonderful.  6) Contrary to popular opinion, I found the plot to be quite interesting and involved. I hear complaints about it being a trade war, and I can't figure it out because the majority of wars fought throughout history have been trade wars  Needs Improvement:  1) Use more subtitles rather than having everyone speak some unusually accented version of english.  2) Jar Jar. I know the poor guy has gotten a lot of flak, and I can honestly say I found him quite amusing at some parts. However, I don't feel he quite fit into the star wars universe. He was simply too useless to the characters, and too clumsy.  3) More screen time for Darth Maul. Again, I know everyone has complained about this, but it's true. A character that great deserves more use. Not even speaking, just seeing more of him would have been nice.  4) The new definition of what the force is. I just didn't care for it being changed from something mystical, to something scientific.  My four complaints are very, very minor compared to the things I loved about the movie. I've already seen it several times, and will probably see it several more. I urge everyone to do the same."
"All of the things that made the Star Wars movies the phenomena that they are seem to be absent from this movie: A story that involves heroes pursuing goals and learning and growing as they try to acchieve them; Well-drawn characters that have honest relationships to one another and learn from each other; And most importantly, Magic: the great unexplainable force that surrounded and binded these movies together, that helped us to become completely enchanted by Luke's quest to become a Jedi. These things are not in The Phantom Menace and I honestly don't think Lucas realizes it.  Lucas has created a film that moves so quickly we don't have time to connect to the characters.  There are no simple, quiet moments with characters together or alone--like Luke watching the suns set on Tatooine or the moments between Luke and Yoda or Han and Leia in Empire--it's just a quick moving video game, as if Lucas doesn't trust his actors to work simply in a honest human scene without gadgets or effects. The characters define themselves only by simple speeches, not by actions as is the case in all classic stories (including ALL 3 of the first films).  As a result we do not care about these characters (which we did almost immediately in the first film) and because of that, with the exception of the final dual, there is no real suspense.  I didn't go in with very high expectations, I just wanted him to deliver a good story and sustain the spirit of the original films.  But George is in love with his moviemaking techno-gadgets now.  For all of our sakes, I can only hope he falls back in love with Joseph Campbell and good dramatic storytelling next time around."
"The book was sooooo good... Why wasn't the movie?  I must have made a mistake by reading the book before seeing the film but I did it because my expectations for the movie were only moderate to begin with.  When I finished reading the book (by Terry Brooks) my expectations for the movie blew the roof.  I got all excited and went to see the movie that night.  I expected for all of the magical character developement, relationship exploration and situational understanding that I witnessed in the book to be at least hinted at in the movie... I was wrong.  In the book: Anakin is adorable.  He is helpful to neighbors. Loving to his mother. Generous beyond belief.  Best of all he is a romantic. He is very sure of himself and a show off (in a little boy sort of way) but stops short of being snoty.  The fact that Anakin grows up to be Darth Vader completely leaves the mind. Most importantly he is loved by everyone around him (with exception to a few antagonists) and he is loved by the READER.  In the film: Anakin is arrogant and snotty.  His emotions are unexplored and Jake Loyd gives an impersonal performance (this may be the fault of George's lack of directing).  Crucial scenes and lines that would have given the audience a chance to know the boy for who he is inside (rather than what he can do) are left out. Ultimately the audience is left with little emotion for the boy.  I will not go further into detail on my opinion of the rest of the characters, their development in the book and lack thereof on screen but know this...  If you loved the original three movies not for the special effects alone but also because the characters were close to the heart and themes were powerful...Do not go see this film.  It will break your heart.  I do not want to come off as a complete antagonist to the film.  The last 45 minutes of it are excellent.  The best special effects ever and the best (and fastest) fight scenes ever are all in this film.  I was sitting up straight and sat engulfed by this movie during the battles.  However, because I cared so little for the characters, once the fighting was over I was emotionally detatched once again.  It was like watching a friend play a video game.  I'll end by stating why I am angry at George Lucas.  He was my idol.  I have an interest in the film industry that overwhelms me and it is because of the stories George Lucas and Steven Spielburg have told.  At the expense of telling a good story George focused on making a video game to attract the child demograph and parents with money.  I for one would like to exchange a few of the special effects for the lovable and interesting characters that I believe in.  A severely disappointed fan"
"SPECIAL EFFECTS: Nothing less than we have come to expect from Industrial Light &amp; Magic.  The close-up work, the computer-generated scenes of massing armies, the battle scenes, all stand up to pretty close scrutiny.  The only true giveaway is that they are a little too perfect, lacking the sense of chaos from floating smoke, tiny variations in mechanical response, etc.  This aspect is well worthy of an Oscar nomination, and probably another statue for Lucas &amp; Co.  SCRIPT: The starting point for creation of a movie, and the weak link in most of the Star Wars series.  The script is *supposed* to be minorly complex swashbuckling, but Phantom Menace is more like &quot;Fan-Tome Minus&quot;. We have several prominent characters and at least 5 clashing cultures to build and resolve, but the script gives most of them criminally short shrift. The dialogue is unforgivably choppy.  It was pretty schmucky in the original Star Wars, but consistent and smooth enough that competent, campy acting carried the show and made a legend.  This script is a poor excuse for a plot outline.  CHARACTERIZATION: Weak, weak, weak.  The Gunga and Naboo cultures are poorly developed cartoons of something indefinite.  Two early scenes, perhaps 90 seconds of movie, could have filled out the two mass protagonists and allowed full use of Jar Jar Binks, Queen Amidala, and Padme.  Note the hints dropped early in the movie to establish the reputation of the Jedi; then, note how similar comments are missing for the Naboo and Gunga.  These are *major* lacks in the movie, especially when a couple of the battle scenes could have been cut by a few seconds to help the pacing. Darth Maul is a (expletive) waste, a plastic bad-guy ninja with no character and no discernible internal motivations, not even those inherited from his Sith master.  Wasting a pivotal character on this two-shot plot element was a horrible writing mistake.  If he is *supposed* to be a non-entity, support it in the surrounding characters -- the Sith master should make a comment like &quot;There are more where he came from&quot; right after the Jedi council question which Sith was destroyed. Similarly, Queen Amidala is poorly written.  I was immediately looking around for the true Naboo leader.  Padme was about as subtle as a bonfire under crepe paper. Finally, the Jedi council are not believable.  I get no sense of The Force acting in that room, whereas the old Obi-Wan wore it like a second skin.  Also, Yoda is the only council member who uses English in a distinctly different manner -- the others are Anglic characters in various shapes and colors.  I get no sense of senior wisdom, no sense of arcane capabilities at work.  Personally, I thought that the stupidest moment of the movie was near the end, when Yoda and Obi-Wan are alone in chamber. Yoda delivers the council decision ... but he's PACING THE FLOOR!  Gimme a break -- I've worked in a &quot;disagree and commit&quot; culture.  The senior Jedi master would not lose that much control and pace the floor.  ACTING: Wooden.  There are a few individual moments of hope with Shmi Skywalker and Padme.  Jake Lloyd gives overall reasonable life to his character.  Ian McDiarmid sets a decent pillar for others to act around, but nobody picks up on it -- and he can't carry it alone in this setting without maturing his role too early for the long-term effect he has to have on the Star Wars series.  MUSIC: John Williams did a wonderful, classical job of matching themes and modes to the characters and action in the first Star Wars movies (although he pilfered the theme from a 1930s sound track, this, too, is somewhat in keeping with classical tradition).  In FanTome Minus, he lived down to the quality of the script.  Anakin is represented by simple juxtaposition of Luke &amp; Leia's themes; this lack of imagination is repeated all through the movie.  There is little variation on the early themes, and not much consistency in application.  Why aren't those themes played for Amidala?  The critical point of foreshadowing would have been when Padme and Anakin declare how much they care for one another, that physical souvenirs are unnecessary.  *That* would have been the time to trot out a Luke/Leia contrapuntal sequence from legato strings."
"Hmm, rookie pilot destroys massive space station, climactic light saber battle on catwalks over bottomless air shafts, where have I seen this before?  I'm not buying the &quot;it's all foreshadowing&quot; b.s.  More like it's all recycling. Although Jar Jar gets the prize as the worst part of the movie, the Ming the Merciless Federation guys, the Arab/Jew trader (let's make him dirtier, with a bigger nose next time) and the jivey, high-steppin' Triumph scene (complete with bell bottoms) were the most disappointing.  Maybe George should leave Xanadu ranch occasionally and meet more humans. Those are the bad parts....  visually, the movie was interesting.  Great art direction and some superb sets and costumes.  Aurally, although I saw the film at a showcase cinema complete with digital sound, THX, EX, DTS, Dolby,...  ....  ....  and all that, much of the dialogue was muffled and obscure, mostly from the rubbery-faced creatures.  I can see why such make-up would muffle the actors' voices if recorded live, but what happened to effective looping, and weren't most of these characters completely digital anyway?  The audience is listening, hard, trying to understand all the mumbo-jumbo. Corvair"
"I think part of the problem with Phantom Menace was that there was far too much explication--not only of the backstory that leads to Episodes 4-6, but also of the characters. Instead of showing the emotions/sensations of fear, foreboding, exhilaration, and joy through the acting or choice of words, the movie told us that this or that was what the character was feeling. It's as though Lucas is completely at a loss when he has to show something that isn't renderable on a computer; as a result, all the characters--live action *and* 3D rendered--just come across as flat.  Then there's the haphazard plot that starts and stops, with one beautifully rendered scene jumping to the next. Instead of a sequence of causal events building up to some kind of climax, it's just a series of happenings. It might have helped to have had a central character to focus on, with captivating supporting characters filling out the group. As it was, the film was very vague and meandering, and the action sequences resulted only in one letdown after another.  The Matrix kicked more ass."
"Star Wars: Episode 1 has absolutely fantastic battle scenes with the mind-boggling CGI effects. Any other movie can't even come close to the special effects and the action packed scenes. Yet, of course, there are flaws. Like those stupid midi-clorians stuff. What was George Lucas thinking!? Or the horrible acting by Jake Lloyd. Or the character Darth Maul, who was the most pointless mistake of a villain. He was in what, 4 scenes, maybe 5? Yet as you're watching the movie, though, you forget all that. I am a Star Wars maniac, and I put Star Wars on a very high level above &quot;normal&quot; movies. Yet when I saw Phantom Menace, I didn't expect it to be on that same level because when Star Wars came out, there was nothing ever like it before. Now every sci/fi movie wants to copy it, so when a new Star Wars comes out, you think, &quot; oh i've seen that in every other sci/fi movie.&quot; But that's not George Lucas's fault. It's not his fault that every futuristic action adventure wants to be like Star Wars. I also didn't expect it to have the impact as the first one did. I expected it to have the impact as Return of the Jedi. I also disagree with the critics saying it has no human magic. It does, yet you concentrate so much on the visuals, that you sort of forget about it. But it's there, isn't it? All in all, Episode 1 has many flaws, but so did the other ones. It is a fun experience that fits very well with the other Star Wars movies. Only one thing, how come Jabba the Hutt hasn't gotten fatter from Episode 1 to New Hope ( which is 35 years later) and blows up like a blimp from New Hope to Return of the Jedi (which is, what, 6 years later?)"
"I've waited close to an hour outside the cinema to see it. Not because I had great expectations of the movie(I got a big feeling I wasn't going to like it) but because I didn't want to be the only person in North America not having seen it. I don't think I have even smiled  once during the projection, not like the group behind me which applauded when the previews began, when the previews ended, when the Lucas Films logo apeared, everytimes Lucas's name apeared when R2D2, 63PO, Anakin... have been introduced in the movie and at the end of the movie. Then, the first thing I've heard was from my 13 years old brother saying the movie was nothing more than an insult to his intelligence(in french). The truth is that the movie was purely a mix of things that worked well in episodes 4,5 and 6 as a result, a movie made for less than ten years old, filled with plates, easy jokes (witch are not funny at all) and characters made to sell stuff at McDonald.  I just feel angry against the big Star War fans saying this is the best movie of all time. They know it's not true, they were ready, I guess, to say that way before the production of the movie had started cause nobody over 10 years old can seriously think it."
"This movie is a children's movie. The desire to make it appeal to the largest audience possible, makes this movie average -- at best -- with the F/X being the only thing that is truly impressive. Some nice performances, though, such as Pernilla August and Ewan McGregor."
"Anyone who saw &quot;The Godfather, Part III&quot; knows what happens when you try to make a movie-sequel with one eye on the &quot;legacy&quot; of the pic instead of both eyes on the story.  There are way too many things to go into but I'll mention three: 1)  I thought Anakin comes into this story way too young. 2)  Young Obi-Wan Kenobi isn't wild enough - &quot;young &amp; wild&quot; go have been in the movies for decades - they're great when they work together.  We should meet him earlier, when he hasn't yet learned Jedi discipline.  Nor should he quite learn all of it for some time after. 3)  I couldn't keep track of which was the queen and which was the servant girl.  And now, for the cliches:  I wanted to like this movie but I couldn't. All the right Star Wars ingredients are there but they just don't gel. There's really nobody to root for and we already know what's going to happen to the kid.  It seems to me that Lucas can't decide whose story this is:  the Skywalker family or the Jedi Knights.  They're &quot;inextricably linked&quot; but, like I said, in this pic they don't quite gel."
"A film of great impact in the youthful years of many of my peers, &quot;The Phantom Menace&quot; lacks many attributes that made the &quot;Star Wars&quot; franchise so appealing to so many.  To look at this film in and of itself, one major problem out of the gate is the lack of genuine characterization.  From the first scene we are subject to Liam Neeson and Ewan McGregor moving stiffly and using dialogue that is more utilitarian than expressive.  One must wonder if the hyper-use of digitized characters (i.e. the leader of the Gungars) was more of a distraction to the actors as they were not able to interact with a real person and emote appropriately.  But if the film has one cental flaw, it is the dialogue itself.  I mean, really...when was the last time one said &quot;yipee!&quot; in excitement rather than in sarcasm?  Jake Lloyd, albeit a child, has suspect acting skills to go with the dialogue that again is utilitarian only.  In short, one wants to push his ears together.  Darth Maul should also be appropriately scrutinized as two lines, a cool landspeeder and one emotion does not a character make.  I suspect that the film is rated as highly as it is in the imdb because of genre alone.  As a viewing audience, especially those of us who are fans of the fanchise from day one, we need to be more critical.  Lucas himself defended similar criticisms by saying that &quot;The Phantom Menace&quot; is for twelve-year-olds.  I believe that to be less a defense and more of a cop-out.  If it's for twelve-year-olds, howcome I was charged the adult price for admission?"
"There are many Sci-Fi movies I have seen in recently.  Knowing that the Phantom Menace was coming up, I was always saying &quot;This is a good warm-up for the new Star Wars!&quot; I remember saying that when I saw Starship Troopers, The Fifth Element, and The Matrix.  Now that I have seen The Phantom Menace, I now really have an appreciation for the earlier films. Even though I didn't enjoy The Fifth Element that much when I first saw it, all 3 of those films are far superior to the new Star Wars.  In fact, The Matrix is more like a Star Wars movie than Phantom Menace!  Morpheus was far cooler than Qui Gon Jin or Yoda. Neo was far cooler than Anakin :) Their powers in their computer generated world far surpassed the non-aggressive force power of the Jedi. Agent Smith was far cooler than Darth Maul (and he actually talked!) And lastly, Neo and Agent Smith's battle scene at the end blew Obi-Wan and Mauls fight scene out of the water.  The only saving grace of TPM was the Pod race.  Why didn't lucas just make a spin-off movie about Pod racing that could preface the new trilogy? Then Anakin could already be free and we could get on to business. In short, others have taken the Star Wars theme and updated it for a new generation of children.  Lucas left Star Wars right where it was, in the 80's. I give it a 5 out of 10 because the Pod Racing and Ewan Mcgregor."
"Yep, I'm a die hard fan. And I got up at 3 to see it at 6 before work on the opening day. And I was with other die hard fans. The only horrible part was how the people I went with decided that to be cool they would say that Episode 1 was 'awesome' before they watched it. Just because it's Star Wars doesn't mean it's great. I've never waited so long for a movie. But here's what I think. The score lacked. These movies go together as one right. All 6 of'em will be the Star Wars Sexillogy. (or whatever). So why not use the endeared Star Wars music. The imperial death march, the Luke Skywalker music. That music gives it that Star Wars feel. Instead, trying to be different, they covered it. Made the music 'sorta like' the original music which I found was just teasing me. When they start going into the familar music and then change it that makes me go ick. (I hate puff daddy too). Comic relief. Sorry, it is not Star Wars to goof around and be cute all the time. Even the Ewoks, however cute, came to the realization of a grim fight against evil and that deal. That sense of urgency and neccessity that kept you on the edge of your seat. Jar Jar is America's Funniest Home Videos with Bob Sagett, not George Lucas's masterpiece, Star Wars. C3PO's comic relief is much better. Makes us laugh because of the character's good development in interesting situitations, not because his pants fall down when reaching for his light saber. Action, it was great. Plot, it was ok. But this movie didn't incorporate them at all. It had a long plot sequence followed by a long action sequence. What was riveting about the previous movies was how in the heat of a duel precious information was given to increase the tension. As cool as the duel was it could have been so much better if Darth Maul was given lines to make him sinisterly evil. If we knew something of who he was. Scenes like Anakin going to the queen were boring. And they would string them together so you'd have one huge sequence of people talking to each other. Look to Empire. The battle of Hoth is one of the best action bits in history. And while it's going on we've got Lea and Han chit chatting. Great stuff. Lucas should have mixed and matched more with plot and action. Now, not to totally dump on the movie. It was good. But to be great and be Star Wars again Lucas has to stick with what made the first 3 great and Star Wars. Stop marketing to the 12 year olds and get credit for his amazing talents. Get back to emotions and finially make that Star Wars prequel I've been waiting for since Jedi. Again it was ok, but as far as I'm concerned, I'm still waiting."
"This is Star Wars.  For me, this movie is just like the old Star Wars movies.  It follows the same formula that the old ones did, by this I mean that it unfolds in the same way as the others.  Yes, special effects are the main focus, but was that any different, say, in A New Hope.  That movie is about rescuing a damsel in distress...not very original or creative.  But the effects and characters take your mind off that just like in this new installment.  Darth Maul is absolutely wonderful and I just can't wait to see what Palpatine will do next.  The Phantom Menace is filled with the same fun spirit of campy adventurism that was so prominent in the earlier movies. This is just another Star Wars Movie, and like the others...it's spectacular!"
"I'll be blunt. This is not your father's Star Wars. Forget the hype for a moment and try to give the movie a chance. This film has something for almost everybody. Phantom Menace has three personalities. It has some fast paced action like Star Wars IV. It also has scenes that were really a Star Wars cartoon. And finally there is a long serious stretch that was more like Star Trek than Star Wars. And you know what? All of these different parts came together for me. Phantom is not great but good enough.  I hear the howling out there that Phantom is not for adults! It is not made only for adults who like action pictures. This is not an action picture. But it is for adults in general. Several people have told me this is the first Star Wars movie they have enjoyed. They LIKED Liam Neeson and the &quot;serious scenes&quot; with Anakin on Tatooine.  I'll be blunt again. George Lucas is no longer 22. He is 55. He is a different film maker from the time he made A New Hope. The first Star Wars with its video game battles every 15 minutes, the constant arguing between its main characters and the frat party enthusiasm when things went right, it's not in Phantom. Lucas has grown up.  Another thing about Lucas. He is a genius at making popular entertainment. My son's friends, 1st through 3rd graders love this picture. And why not. The computer animation is terrific and they &quot;get&quot; the humor. As I said people who do not usually like  science fiction have told me they enjoyed the seriousness of the main characters. (And except for the animated character, they are all very low key.)  The group that has complained the most are the action picture fans. But you know what? With all the complaints about how slow and silly the film is, they still thought the &quot;bad guy&quot; was cool, that the light saber action was good and that there were enough things getting blown up to keep them going back to see the movie a second and third time.  Finally, Lucas and his crew are such good artists and perfectionists and so dedicated in creating an imaginary world that no one can absorb all the imagery that Phantom gives you in one sitting. I want to see it again; if anything just to look at the awesome digital sets one more time and experience another place in a galaxy far, far away."
"Wow! There have already been so many reviews written in such a short time that one more would probably be insignificant, but why not?  I have to say right off that I was disappointed for two main reasons. The biggest one is that George Lucas has followed the recent trend, much like the recent The Mummy (which I hated), of keeping the movie distanced from real excitement by running silly humor right on through to the big battle scenes. Jar Jar Binks is an alright comic sidekick in the beginning but when he becomes a heroic figure through sheer klutziness, I wondered where the real &quot;Star Wars&quot; movie was. I think the first time this was popular was in Forrest Gump, where the title character moves through major historical events but is too stupid to realize what is really going down. But at least &quot;Gump&quot; was satirical, where as movies like this use this type of &quot;fun&quot; as a way to protect themselves. If people don't like it, Lucas can always say &quot;it's just a kid's movie&quot; or &quot;it wasn't meant to be taken seriously&quot;. Compare the big battle scene finale in &quot;Menace&quot; to the endings of the other three &quot;Star Wars&quot; films and I think there's something seriously lacking. And although computer animation can do great things I do kind of miss the use of miniatures and models. The other major problem I had was the boring political dialogue, and that includes the Jedi conference scenes. Who cares about all the policies and procedures of all these senators and such? I thought this was &quot;Star Wars&quot;, not &quot;Star Trek&quot;. The Phantom Menace seems to be made of scenes that are too deathly serious or not serious enough.  On the plus side, the movie is often visually stunning. My personal favorite &quot;Phantom&quot; moment is the scene that takes place underwater. What a grand vision that aquatic city is! And those giant fish! I was in awe. R2-D2 and C-3PO both make memorable appearances and the drag race is gripping and intense and contains some genuine comic moments. I loved Anakin Skywalker's appealingly gruesome owner. But this all takes place in the first half and the second half is cold and awkward, and Lucas lets the computers overtake any interest in the story and characters. Nevertheless, I'm still looking forward to the next episode (three years!) and hoping Lucas puts Jar Jar and the politics more in the background next time. **1/2 out of ****"
"Yo-  OK. I know we've all said it before, but Jar Jar was obnoxious, annoying, distracting and unnecessary. I really liked this film, especially the evil little robot droids. And ESPECIALLY the little guy who said &quot;OOOO-TEEE-DEE!!&quot; Nice! But Jar Jar got in the way of some great storylines. I found myself getting into a scene and praying that JJ wouldn't pop up again to screw things up, but he always did. I don't know about everyone else, but I prefer the little Jim Henson muppet guys in the first three Star Wars to the cheesy computer animation. Computer animation is fake and annoying!!! Overall, I had a lot of fun though! Yes, this film is really just a big set up for the next two, but it was a GREAT set up!!! How many years do we have to wait for the next one? Three? Ugh!"
"(No spoilers in this review)  I worry about George Lucas, who apparently doesn't have any friends loyal enough to have stopped him in his quest to make a one-hour-and-forty-minute commercial to showcase his special effects company, ILM (Industrial Light &amp; Magic) and impending video game from this movie.  For instance, what kind of friend would let Lucas create a silly, non-plot related 3-D computer-generated character (JarJar Binks) and let this slapstick character have MORE SCREEN TIME than the fabulous and highly underused Liam Neeson?  Now that's just plain wrong and someone should have said something to the famed director about this.  Of course, I think Lucas must have been too busy at the time making sure the pod race scene (which lasted WAY too long) was an exciting plug for the video game, which is sure to follow.  A true friend (and a competent editor) would have cut at least half of the pod race scene.  Of course, I'd like to review the plot for you, but since there was no protagonist and no antagonist, I'm not really sure what the story was about.  On a positive note, I can tell you that there was a fantastic scene which was completely captivating.  The scene took place in a room full of Jedi Knights of different races (this was the scene with Samuel L. Jackson). Since in later movies there are only one or two Jedi left, this scene was fascinating.  And geez, there was even one female knight - though she didn't have any dialogue and was as far away from Master Yoda as she could be and still be in the room.  Nevertheless, it was riveting and I was waiting for more information on the formation of the Jedi Knights or find out more about training, or about what makes a person ready to be a Jedi Knight, or even a little bit more about the Sith (which get a slight mention - don't blink, you'll miss it).  Too bad Lucas dropped the ball on that scene in favor of foolish slapstick antics by JarJar Binks.  I realize that Lucas is working on what I call, &quot;The Ewok&quot; Factor&quot;.  The Ewok Factor is Lucas' attempt to create lovable and highly marketable movie characters which will sell his merchandise.  All in all, I don't mind this approach IF the characters make sense.  In this movie, Lucas had Qui-gon for the women, Obi-wan for the young girls, Queen Amidala presumably for the men and young girls, Anakin for the kids, and Darth Maul for the teenage boys. But it doesn't work because there is no focus at all to the movie.  We don't even know who Darth Maul is or how bad of a bad guy he is.  What a waste.  It's a shame that the lure of a fat wallet from marketing revenues has clouded Lucas' former best ability - how to tell a fascinating and personally identifiable story.  Why other people believe this movie is good is beyond me.  If it didn't have Lucas' name and Star Wars attached to it, it would be in video release in two months.  George, please, do yourself a favor and get a few real friends and lose the &quot;yes&quot; men.  You are a better film maker than this."
Save your money. There is entirely too much going on at any one time. Too much for the brain to take it all in. The sound quality is so bad I don't think I could understand but about 40% of the dialog. All of the bad guys sound like they are talking into a toilet bowl. Maybe some of them are!! George needs to back off quite a bit on the next two.
"Most people say that the movie lacks a little something that the original had and this is what : There is no villain. We have no one to root against. In Star Wars, it was established early on that Darth Vader was the bad guy. The characters were fighting the Empire but we felt that Vader was in control. Now, this allowed us to care for the protagonists. We knew who they were fighting and who had to be defeated.  In The Phantom Menace, we're not even sure what they are fighting. So the characters are up against a big inhuman corporation which takes away from their own humanity and makes us care a little less about them than we did Luke, Han and Leia.  Other than this, it's a very good action movie. The visuals are fantastic and some sequences will just blow you away (I particularly liked the three-way lightsaber fight). And to follow on the characterization, some scenes try to make up for the lack of villain. They always start good but, in typical Lucas style, they always end up being too charged because he tries to put too much in everything. In the other films, he should try to hold back in the scenes that are supposed to be character driven, lay off all the CGI stuff in the background that drives our attention away from the people."
"George Lucas has done it again. The man behind arguably the most popular movie series of all time, the &quot;Star Wars&quot; trilogy, has expanded the now-classic saga and given us its prehistory. Long-time fans of the series will delight in seeing Luke and Leia's parents, a young Obi-Wan Kenobi, and even audience favorites Yoda, R2-D2, and Jabba the Hutt.  The plot, true-to-form of the best episodic series, is full of political intrigue, colorful characters, far-off locales, and exciting battle sequences. The evil villains, the beautiful princess, the wise heroes - all are familiar territory to us and they all fit nicely with the Star Wars universe. George Lucas both wrote and directed &quot;Phantom Menace,&quot; a task he has not undertaken since the original &quot;Star Wars&quot; movie. The Lucas touch shows - and the audience responds.  &quot;The Phantom Menace,&quot; while completely entertaining and well worth the admission price, is not without its flaws. Jar-Jar Binks, one of the completely computer-generated characters in the film, is just plain irritating and leaves me hoping that his Gungan race will not be making any appearances in the second and third films. There's also a two-headed alien in the pod-racing sequence who just doesn't belong in this universe - maybe this type of character would be appropriate for &quot;Spaceballs&quot; or one of the anachronistic jokes in a Disney movie like &quot;Aladdin&quot; or &quot;Hercules,&quot; but the sportscaster simply detracts from the mythological impact of the film.  The performances are quite good. Liam Neeson and Ewan McGregor are superb as the Jedi Knights Qui-Gon Jinn and Obi-Wan Kenobi; Natalie Portman is riveting as the girl-geisha Queen Amidala; even young Jake Lloyd pulls off a touching, empathetic Anakin Skywalker. Ian McDiarmid reprises his role as Senator Palpatine, later known as the Emperor. The supporting cast is also excellent - Samuel L. Jackson, Terence Stamp, and Pernilla August play their small roles with class and dignity - for a style so melodramatic, it's reassuring when the performances manage to be both subtle and powerful. The only performances that feel wrong are the computer generated characters: Jar-Jar Binks, Watto the slave owner, Sebulba the podracer, even the Battle Droids are quite obviously false. Instead of focusing on the character, as we were able to do with Yoda or the Ewoks, we focus on the technological marvels that have made Jar-Jar possible.  Fans of the original trilogy and newcomers to the series are sure to enjoy this &quot;Menace&quot; - while clumsy at times and a bit confusing plotwise, it has a charm to it that fits in precisely with the type of Saturday-afternoon serial Lucas strove to emulate. Just like the &quot;Indiana Jones&quot; movies made with Hollywood royalty Steven Spielberg, the &quot;Star Wars&quot; movies are pure escapist fantasies, sure to take you back long, long, ago to a galaxy far, far away."
"If you're a Star Wars fanatic, you'll love this movie. If you're just a regular movie enthusiast, you'll find the story line very weak and even really ridiculous at times (definitely not in a good way). It wasn't worth waiting in line an hour and a half but it's worth seeing at least once just because of the name &quot;Star Wars&quot;."
"No movie could truly live up to the hype that has been put around this movie, and certainly Phantom falls far short. A lot of basic cinematic flaws, it shows that Lucas has not directed for such a long time. I wish his vision would have allowed someone with more experience to direct. Certainly the script could have been worked much better to remove the numerous plot holes. In all I found the movie to be hokey; the Pod races, the immaculate conception of Ani, etc.. Only true saving grace was the extremely well choreographed and exciting saber duel, but I felt that I was watching Jedi all over again at the end. It is a shame also, to have so many talented actors and almost all of their time on screen is a waste. I truly hope Mr.Lucas will be able to produce the next 2 despite of this movie and that they will be much better. I feel this movie ripped away the magic and wonder that the first series gave to us."
"I was bored during the almost 2 hours and 20 minutes this movie lasted.  I enjoyed the parts everyone expected to see, the pod race and the light saber fight.  It seems as if the rest of the movie was simply a 2 hr build up for a 20 minute action scene.  If this movie was not a Star Wars movie, but a normal sci-fi movie, it wouldn't be getting such great comments from die-hard fans.  Which just proves that some people out there will like anything with the Star Wars logo on it, regardless of quality."
"I really wanted to like this movie. Really.  I loved the first three Star Wars movies, but this is not anything like them.  The first had characters you cared for, great music, humor, and action.  This one does have action, but the other qualities are missing.  The best attempt at humor is a lame fart joke, and a character stepping in animal droppings.  The most telling aspect about this film's humor is the fact that I did not hear one good laugh from the packed house during the entire movie.  A couple of isolated chuckles, but no laughs.   Next, there are no characters you care about.  Obi-wan, Anakin, and the queen are mildly interesting, but they are not developed. Finally, John Williams' music is barely heard.  Much has been made of the amount of computer generation in the film. &quot;Much&quot; is the operative word because there is WAY too much of it.  The film looks artificial most of the time.  Which surprised me, I thought CGI was well used in the Jurassic Park movies, and would be improved upon here. Not so.  It was obvious when it was used.  It made me think I was watching a computer game.  I'd trade my empire for one cheesy, rubber-faced alien in this movie. Finally, after all is said and done, the first three films were not great art-they were fun. This effort was just plain no fun."
Poorly made movie. Using computer gimmiks as seen in previews. Not as good as original nor any follow ups. Plot is far fetched and somewhat difficult to follow. Not cracked up to hype.
"It's a shame that with all the resources available this highly enjoyable super-film has to include a number of the worst lines and lamest deliveries I've seen in any major production of the last few years.  I have no trouble enjoying mindless entertainments and I love special effects, but somebody should have said something to Lucas... I was also put off by what I took to be caricatures of a number of Earth's minority groups."
"America is being sold bill of goods at the box office. In the past few years what the majority of Americans consider good film (Titanic, Jurassic Park, The Phantom Menace), is sub-moronic.  While I will agree that these films are visually enticing they lack good scripting and acting. Does Hollywood think that their target market is 13 year old boys and girls?  In the original Star Wars although the scripting was mediocre, it had likable and memorable characters that were witty. The Phantom Menace had no likable characters that were either dull or trying to be blatantly and mostly annoyingly funny.  How many JarJar toys is Lucas expecting to sell? I was very surprised I thought that Neeson would have at least provided a more memorable performance (he was phenomenal in Rob Roy).  In closing it is sad when a director starts making film for the almighty dollar. Lucas didn't do this with the original Star Wars films and it unfortunately in his latest effort, or lack thereof all too clear."
"We saw it yesterday night...  don't get your hopes up...  warn your friends!  ill-conceived &amp; executed plot + horrific dead pan screenwriting + bad acting &amp; directing + lack of in-scenario historical continuity + good but over-used special effects + catering to nursery school audience  even without comparison to the previous films in the series, this film just cannot stand up on its own.  contrary to those that give george lucas benificence of the doubt, good films actually do require good stories or stunning visuals.  Even regarding stunning visuals, the film does not deliver that much that is new.   e.g. Roger Ebert asserts that  &quot;There are new places here--new kinds of places.&quot;  However, this is not true.  there really isn't much new that we haven't seen before in other films -- &quot;There are new places here--new kinds of places. Consider the underwater cities, floating in their transparent membranes. [as seen in the Abyss] The Senate chamber, a vast sphere with senators arrayed along the inside walls. . . [as seen in Dark City]&quot;  at best this is a very mediocre film with some interesting special effects. Please someone tell George et al to assemble new talent and better writers that will collectively be able to pull off the next two."
"This movie had incredibly cool special effects. It could have been spectacular, but wound up being just so-so. The first three movies of the triology were great, but this one fell short in all areas except for the visual.  Most jarring of all were the aliens. From the icky Jar Jar, to the Trade Federation representatives, to the leader of the Gungans, to the pod race announcer - every alien was played strictly for laughs. They were all just too precious for words. This may get a chuckle from the under-12 crowd, but for everyone else it has to be jarring. The Trade Union representatives in particular could have been menacing, but they were cartoon figures instead.  There was no real sense of menace or drama in this film. The underwater race through the core of Naboo could potentially have  had the impact of the race through the asteroid field in the original Star Wars, but was merely another ho-hum cartoonish adventure.  The time line is so &quot;off&quot; also. This is supposed to take place 30 years before the first Star Wars I understand. In that movie Obi-Wan was an older man who appeared to be in his mid-70's. Here, 30 years earlier, he is in his mid-20's. My, being a Jedi is aging, isn't it? It was actually the Liam Neeson character who was the correct age to be Obi-Wan, and that could have had great dramatic impact - if his young apprentice, for example,had been killed by Darth Maul, and he vowed to train young Anakin Skywalker as a replacement. His bitter desire for revenge could have been part of the fuel that fed Anakin's darker desires.  Also, for a Republic that has lasted 20000 years the brief rise and fall of a so-called Empire in a mere 30 is barely a blip on the cosmic span, rating barely a line or two in the history books. It cheapens the efforts of the rebel alliance of the later 3 episodes. You would have to imagine that the vast majority of folks would still be loyal to the Republic that had served their civilization for untold millenia. Probably outlying planetary systems never even knew of the Empire!  Well, after waiting so many years for this movie I'm sad that my major feeling is disappointment. I think I will have to go back and watch the videos of the first 3 movies to wash the taste of this one from my mouth. Thank heavens for Liam Neeson. He lent the movie the only dignity it had."
"Well, There I was ... bored. George Lucas had a chance to create something really great here, and dropped the ball. The effects were really good, the pod race was awesome, and the lightsaber duel was really good as well. The rest of the movie was the problem.  Where do I start .. The dialog, pacing, Jar Jar, the plot, the kid, the &quot;acting&quot;, the &quot;Ewok Factor&quot;. I was waiting for Howard The Duck to make a cameo. That way Lucas can sell that action figure as well..I just came out of the theatre with a negative attitude about the whole thing."
"The Phantom Menace is a weak prologue to what should be the best movies of the Star Wars saga -- Episodes 2 and 3.  Lucas has always said the prequels would be more soap operas  -- the &quot;who-did-what-to-whom&quot; types -- than epic movies about space battles. Unfortunately, Lucas took more than two hours to introduce us to characters who had nothing to do during that time.  Lucas gave his fine actors very little to work with -- a weak script, a weak plot, and no &quot;story.&quot; The characters were little more than showpieces. Lucas spent more time developing the personality of Watto than of Qui-Gon Jinn.  In the end, moviegoers will not flock to this film because it holds little emotional appeal. I understand that these films are  supposed to be more emotionally complex than the originally trilogy -- that the good guys sometimes do bad things -- but there must be some struggle at the surface to do right or wrong. In this film, there were no struggles. Lucas did a poor job of introducing characters, and of introducing scenes. The elements were there for a good story, but Lucas didn't do enough to flush   them out.  Take the Jedi Council scene for example. No buid up at all that this should be an important meeting with severe consequences for Episodes 2 and 3. Instead, it seemed like another routine meeting with bureaucrats. I'm sure Lucas wanted the Jedi Council to seem as ineffective as the Galactic Senate, but he didn't build it up sufficiently to create the dramatic irony needed to see it as ineffective. Instead, it was just boring.  A poor film all around, and certainly sub-standard for this saga."
"I WON'T DESCRIBE THE PLOT TOO MUCH, SO HAVE NO FEAR IN READING THIS...  Flawed, clunky dialogue, a ridiculous digitally rendered unecessary character, and some weird Lucasisms all mar slightly to what is a fantastic wild ride back into the Star Wars universe.  The first 20 minutes are out of some dopey old dimwitted western, but once it gets going...all in all...Episode One is a great primer to the new series. Liam Neeson, suprisingly, fills the boots well as a mentor, as Ewen MacGregor is fittingly subdued as a jedi-trainee (though one desires more). Jake Lloyd has been unfairly criticized and maligned for acting like what exactly he needed to be...a six-year old. The only dud to this cast is the commercialistic-child-placating retarded-Ewok-like character of Jar Jar Binks. He is far too much concentrated on, and completely not needed. This is not a deeply emotional film that needed the comic-relief...and mostly, Jar Jar is completely unfunny.  The story itself is somewhat light, like a re-intro to the scheme of things. Episode One slowly puts out tendrils of plot that will be pulled upon in the 2nd movie. It isn't very surprising, in fact, it is very predictable. But, what carries it is the tremendous visual effects, as well as a middle racing sequence that is an ode to Ben-Hur. The final sabre battle, however, is what wraps this film nicely.  Obi-One's rise to manhood (as a Jedi, of course), the finding of the young Anakin, and the rise of Senator Palpatine are the real focuses of this film...and all point to the real crux of this series...Episiode 2.  CRITICISMS:  Lucas, however, I hope will let a real screen writer go to work on future movies. His making &quot;The Force&quot; into something genetic is idiotic, and goes against the mythical spirituality of the previous Star Wars films...in fact, it actually goes against the psychological and philosophical precepts of those films. And, his biblical implications towards the father of Anakin Skywalker is completely bizarre and silly. Get a grip, George...let's try for something less egotistical here. This isn't the old testament.  Plus, the lack of real tangible character development is muddled and incomplete. This series screams for Lawrence Kasdan's return - for it needs his developmental touch. Also, the directing could use improvement. It is directed like any film school grad...no real good shots or techniques. Impact by technology is in place of impact of good filmaking or storytelling, ultimately.  WRAP-UP  All in all, this movie, as I said, is a great primer to what one hopes is two great movies to come. See it, experience it, and understand its flaws...it's a jewel nevertheless."
"The fall of Lucas started with the Solo scene in the Star War's Special Edition, when he softened the Greedo shoots first  scene. I got a little worried,when I should have gotten a lot worried! I take that back it may have happened during Jedi.I also think that Episode 1 was made for his 6 year old son. Lucas should of had Darth Maul fight a savage scene with some Sand People on Tatooine at least!But he probably didn't want anymore violence than necessary.  Killing Darth Maul showed some of the old Lucas guts! After seeing Episode 1, I think it ranks with Jedi well below Star Wars ANH &amp; The Empire Strikes Back.The next two better not be as wimpy after all this is Star WAR(S)!"
"I'm tired of people saying that I am not a &quot;True Fan&quot; because I think The Phantom Menace was disappointing.  This is simply not true.  I am a huge fan of the franchise.  But, that doesn't mean that I'm going to pray at the altar of George Lucas, simply because he made another Star Wars movie.  No &quot;True Fan&quot; can admit that the story or the characters of TPM were better than any of the 3 original films. And the directing was just terrible. Not to mention, the only characters (aside from Obi-Wan) that I began to care about were killed!  Then the &quot;True Fans&quot; say that you can't compare this film to the original 3. They're right.  The first three had sly humor, sexual tension, and characters that reeked of good or evil.  They had a campy, space cowboy feel.  The Phantom Menace is just a typical big-budget CGI showcase. Lucas' attempt to make this film appeal to both kids and adults just makes it less accessible to either.  After the excitement of the new movie has worn off, I am sure the &quot;True Fans&quot; will be able to stand back, take an objective look at TPM, and admit that it doesn't fit well with the original trilogy."
what a disappointment. they turned star wars into a disney movie. all the special effects in the world couldn't have saved this movie - there was cool graphics but they didn't really matter - they didn't mean anything. and it was just &quot;wimpy&quot; film-making there wasn't anything cool about it. i really hope people voice their opinion on it - because i don't want the next one to bomb as well. when i walk out of a theatre i have a gut feeling of the movie and i had a stomach ache after this from squirming in my seat so much. i think the next one should be directed by the guy who did empire strikes back.
"I went to the theater expecting to see a movie, instead I found a special effects show with dialog sandwiched in between to take up time.  The death of a *MAIN CHARACTER* takes up maybe 15 seconds of screen time.  Characters where NOT introduced, they were assumed.  And since when is star wars a comedy?  Are we supposed to believe an alien race on a distant planet, that lives underwater, no less, has adopted &quot;bad English&quot; as their language?  How is it that storm troopers of &quot;40 years ago&quot; are smaller, lighter, more intelligent, and have SHIELDS when the troopers with &quot;40 years&quot; more development time do not?  The only good part of this movie was the restrictions placed on previews. This movie was hyped up to be the BEST movie ever, how DARE it not live up to its own hype.  Obe One can do a pull up, using only his finger tips, and propel himself 40 feet in the air, but when he has to run about 10 feet in around 5 seconds he can't, leaving him conveniently trapped in a force field.  Please, don't insult me Lucas.  And don't insult your 3 great Star Wars films.  Maybe you should have called it Star Wars Episode 1/2."
"Visually, this is one of the most incredible films I've ever seen. As a fully imagined universe it has, simply, no comparison. Despite (or perhaps because of) its hodgepodge of the world's architecture, flora, fauna, and art, it seems completely self-realized. As a complete fantasy world it holds its own with Metropolis, 2001, and The Cabinet of Dr. Caligari.  Most of my comments are going to be about what I don't like, so let may say from the beginning: This film has magic. It is totally convinced with its own purpose and believability and is beautifully realized. It's not beautifully realized as a story, but as a world - as a universe that is alive with endless amounts of wealth and detail. If you accept it on its own terms, it is, at times, awe-inspiring.  The acting, however, was decent but not great. I liked Portman, Neeson, and most of the minor characters, and didn't care for Jake Lloyd (Anakin Skywalker). One large acting problem: several of the minor characters had unfortunate stereotypical ethnic accents (the Trade Federation Viceroys and the Gungans). I don't know what this means, but it was at times borderline embarrassing. I wish they had made the accents more alien.  The story sets the stage for the coming two chapters. The storyline itself is a little clunky and very reminiscent of the serials that Lucas and Spielberg love so much (like all of the Star Wars movies): a bunch of inter-connected roller-coaster rides held together by the larger plot. I enjoyed the larger plot; I just didn't enjoy the way Lucas put it together.  In particular, I think Lucas writes horrible dialogue. The film is littered with unfunny non-contemporary kid-phrases like &quot;slime-ball&quot; and &quot;doo doo.&quot; Over and over, the characters slip from a very formal use of the English language to a faux-hip outdated slang. It's not quite &quot;gee whiz&quot; but several kids do say &quot;yipee!&quot; This has marred all of Lucas' films (with the possible exception of THX-1138) but in this film he really lets himself go. I wish he had a strong editor to reel in his outdated slang and his predilection for prat falls and fart jokes.  The prat falls and fart jokes were mainly directed at or the fault of Jar Jar Binks. I didn't have a problem with Jar Jar. The character was annoying and received too much screen time, but the other characters reacted to him as you or I would. They constantly told him to be quiet, stay still, and shut up. Despite what you heard, the cuteness and Disney-ification isn't as bad as it was in Return of the Jedi. Still, as a kid, I never wanted to be pandered to. I enjoyed Star Wars without a silly Ewok trolloping around. I enjoyed it without gratuitous fart jokes. A big scary Wookie, a strange alien-filled bar, and creepy Vader were enough for me. But honestly, Jar Jar is no worse then C-3P0's banter in the first two movies.  The movie recycles a lot of the previous movies: the destruction of the Death Star, the young boy longing for adventure, the hero's journey, and the end of Obi-Wan Kenobi (I can't tell you more). I didn't really mind that. The Star Wars films have always borrowed, like the Tarrantino films, from everyone and everything. As a kid, I didn't know and didn't care. Today, I still like the films, and love figuring out all the films or sci-fi books he refers to.  Last gripe: I wish Lucas would refrain from using anymore Joseph Campbell tropes. In this one, he pushes a savior myth WAY too far. And I would have liked to have seen more of Darth Maul. He was an amazing character. Creepy and cougar-like, he stole every scene he was in. His fight scene against Obi-Wan and Qui-Gon was spectacular; it was the best sword fight I've seen in American cinema.  All in all, it's not a movie that can survive all the hype that has been built up around it. It is a good film; not great, but it is a film filled with daring virtuosity and sprawling vision. Lucas may not be Welles, but he has provided a dreamscape that many will run through for years to come."
"Objectively this isn't the worst movie ever made, but I've never been more disappointed. I waited a generation for THIS???  We were warned by the early reviews and by the clips Lucas had let out, like those on &quot;60 Minutes&quot;. I saw enough footage to know better than to pay $11 ($9.50 for Manhattan plus the Moviephone surcharge) to see it, but it's Star Wars. Deep inside I was and praying I'd like it enough to work my way past the CRAP I'd seen in the previews.  I think what killed it were the hundreds of new computer-generated aliens and droids. They're all &quot;cute&quot; and quirky. Many of them have racially stereotyped accents (Chinese, Caribbean, Yiddish) which broke any illusion that we were in a galaxy far, far away.  More frequent than the appearance of new monsters are the cheap laughs... Jar Jar falls down, Jar Jar knocks stuff over, Jar Jar gets his head stuck in a proton accelerator and his tongue goes numb, Jar Jar eats like a frog. It's just not funny. It's embarrassing. At least the audience at the show I saw stopped feeling compelled to laugh after the first 20 minutes at that point there were a few forced chuckles but no real enthusiasm surfaced after that. even when the good guys won (not to spoil it for you).  The first series didn't rely on cheap laughs or cute characters. Jedi did to some degree but after two hours with the Gungans I would have paid another $11 if they'd interrupted the show and played the Ewok Adventure instead. There was no preparing.  Is it because most of the viewers in their 20's and 30's who experienced the magic the first time around won't be buying action figures that Lucas is now pandering to four year olds? Will these kids grow up with a similar love and awe for the new series that my friends and I had for the old one or will they forget about the whole thing in a few months. I hope I do but then there are Episodes 2 and 3 and after all, it's Star Wars. Maybe there's no hope till we get back up to &quot;A New Hope&quot;."
"I should make it perfectly clear that I really, really wanted to like this movie, despite all of the negative early reviews of it. But that is not possible. What I am truly amazed by now are all of those individuals who, after waiting for weeks in line, have now finally seen the movie - with the majority of them insisting that &quot;The Phantom Menace&quot; is one of the greatest movies they have ever seen. It is not even a good movie. You people truly give new meaning to the term &quot;delusional&quot;. How sad it must be to wait for all these years and all of this hype just to be presented with this totally emotionless experience. Why not just admit it? This is one seriously disappointing movie."
"Not much here......to read people calling Lucas a genius baffles me.  The story is good - as always, but Mr. Lucas, get some help with the rest of it.  The special effects and computerized imagery is amazing, but every human element is lacking.  Nearly every line seems robotic, and sometimes it doesn't take a line.  Every movement in this movie has been scripted and it shows.  The impromptu and the emotion that comes with it is what makes a movie go beyond the average and Phantom Menace has none.  Actors are supposed to become the characters they portray.  But, for instance, Neeson wasn't Qui-Gon Jinn, he was Neeson playing Qui-Gon Jinn.  Give me a robe and I'll be me playing Qui-Gon.  If Lucas wants to show me how to put my hand up to my face as if I was deep in thought (a la Samuel Jackson), hey...I can do it just fine.  You want my opinion?...I'd say see it once, and then wait for HBO...oh yeah...I forgot...Lucas controls that, too."
"I saw this movie with 47 other Star Wars fans and not one of us left with a smile on our faces.  The original 3 movies worked for 2 reasons.  1) The effects were state of the art and light years ahead of everything else. 2) The stories were compelling and envolving.  None of this was true with &quot;The Phantom Menace&quot;.  The effects were not state of the art nor were they or could they be light years ahead of the rest.  They were basically just standard fair for CG effect.  Therefore the movie needed to rely on the story but unfortunately the story was boring and predictable and uncompelling.  Qui-Gon Jinn's (Liam Neeson) confidence may make sense for a Jedi but unfortunately it removed all the tension.  He's not worried so why should we be.  Therefore for example when they are traveling through the underwater tunnels about to be eaten by sea monsters we really don't care.  And then even if we had cared it's been done before.  1) in Empire, 2) in nearly every VR ride in the last 5 years.  Of course another problem is the very nature of being a prequel.  We know who has to live and therefore we know who will always prevail. So much for tension.  Then there are of course the technical/effects errors.  Star Wars is supposed to have the best effects yet the reflection mapping on the queen's ship is clearly substandard by even the standards of years ago.  Notice that the reflections don't match the environment.  Also, ships and people do not get reflected.  Another example would be the queen and her men scaling the castle on ropes.  The idea may have worked on paper but the execution on screen looked as bad as the old Batman TV series.  Next there is the bad acting.  Liam Neeson seemed stiff as a board.  Maybe that's the way his character was supposed to be but either way it's bad acting or bad writing.  The kid clearly could not act.  And finally the single worst actor in the movie was Samuel L. Jackson.  I love him in most movies but in this movie it was not a character, Mace Windu, that I saw in the movie but Samuel L. Jackson.  He was so out of place it was as if Mickey Mouse made a guest appearance.  One didn't look at him and see &quot;Mace Windu&quot; one saw him on screen and said &quot;Hey man, that's Samuel L. Jackon sitting next to Yoda.&quot;  Finally there is the luck.  Luck is a BAD thing in a movie.  It removes all skill, tension, sense of accomplishment from a scene.  Some &quot;luck&quot; is okay. If you go back to the original 3 movies you will find that such luck plays little if no part whatsoever. The biggest &quot;luck&quot; in the first series is convieniently finding the Ewoks just when you need help which is also one of the reasons why most people find the 3rd movie to be the weaker of the three.  Advice to Lucas, if you want to do one thing to help Episode 2, remove the luck."
"Visually stunning but appears to  have been made for an audience with an extremely short attention span. The story, and script, are, sadly, extremely weak and every place, person and incident is explained by one of the actors all the time in a slow ponderous way as if a teacher was speaking to a dim witted illiterate!! What a pity Lucas did not spend some money on the script!  Liam Neeson tries valiantly but looks like he cannot believe the lines he has been given to say. No wonder he announced his retirement from Films."
"This is a mixture between Power Rangers, A Bug's Life, the Little Mermaid and StarShip Troopers.  It just happens to have some Star Wars overtones. If it did not have a Star Wars billing, this thing wouldn't crack the 50mil mark.  Disappointed is an understatement.  Why the necessity for an entire clan of computer generated underwater yahoos and their pathetic sub-plot? Is merchandising that important.  Lucas has two more films to clean this debacle up...God speed."
"This movie was very well directed and coordinated. It was an edge of your excitement film with all the lavish, sympathy, and action that you would expect!! I definitely recommend watching it....Twice Even!!!! I am writing this comment right after watching the 12:01 showing and I can tell you now, that the wait was well worth it...This movie is not one to miss!!!! One more thing by the way, I also felt that the designing of the costumes used in the film was very well organized and hope that Episode II and III bring out the best of all the characters as the did in Episode I!!"
"The Phantom Menace really had little to offer for adults, other than a lot of eye candy and a bit of nostalgia.  The story was ho hum.  We heard a lot about painful death and suffering of a planet, but never even saw any of it. The baddest bad guy had almost nothing to say -- he just popped up a couple of times for a few seconds, and bandied about a light saber in two saber fights.  He looked like some guy I saw at a Halloween party last year.  Visual effects were stunning, but to make a great movie you have to have characters you care about.  Phantom Menace had few of these.  The good thing this movie has going for it is a hint at the transformation of Anakin Skywalker to come in the next two installments, under the apprenticeship of a young Obi-Wan Kenobi."
"By Far the most beautiful, but weakest of the 4 films to date.  Although it is set during a raging battle, you only witness 2 deaths in the entire film (not including droids)!  It seemed to volley between 3rd grade humor and over technical banter."
"I really wanted to like this movie, but I didn't go in with high expectations.  But it was B-A-D.  Bad dialogue, bad acting, no plot. Natalie Portman, Liam Neeson and Ewan McGregor were wasted in this film, nothing the least bit interesting to say or do.  We've seen better light sabre fights in the other movies, and although Darth Maul's double-sabre was cool, it wasn't enough.  Jake Lloyd's sweet Anakin gave me cavities.  Jar Jar Binks was nothing but annoying.  I am a big Star Wars fan, but I know a bad movie when I see one.  About the dialogue - there were so many lines that were out of context. Why on Earth did the two-headed sportscaster have to say something stupid like &quot;No matter what universe you are from, that's gotta hurt.&quot;  And If Anakin Skywalker said &quot;Yipee&quot; one more time I think I would have vomitted.  Sure the effects and scenery are beautiful, I'll give them that.  But part of what made Star Wars great is you knew the sets were actually built, either life size or miniatures.  The original Star Wars is simply a story of good versus evil, literally black and white, Darth Vader and Luke Skywalker, Hero and Villain.  In the Phantom Menace, sure we had good vs. evil, but Darth Sidiuos and Darth Maul were nowhere near the evil presence of Darth Vader.  I didn't care about them.  Good thing we weren't introduced to Star Wars in episode order.  The franchise may have died right here.  Thank you Mr. Lucas for giving us Star Wars (Episodes IV &amp; V).  If we are ever to see Episodes II &amp; III, please oh please let somebody else write it!"
"This is less a review of The Phantom Menace and more a review of George Lucas.  Lucas dreamed big. That&#x27;s a good thing, because without that big Dreaming we would never have had Star Wars (before it was ever called A New Hope) in the first place. But that big dreaming is indicative of a big ego.  And A New Hope hit big, and fed that ego. Lucas had not only succeeded, but succeeded magnificently, as a filmmaker and as a businessman. When it came time for what many others have referred to as the &#x22;inevitable sequel,&#x22; Lucas was on top of the world. He made a pair of interlinked decisions that would prove to be the best thing that happened to his series: he hired Irvin Kershner to direct, and Leigh Brackett to write.  The film was an enormous success. But if you&#x27;re Lucas, and more to the point if you have Lucas&#x27; ego, what do you make of the fact that the creative decisions in this very, very successful sequel were all made by other people? One potential answer is that you&#x27;re resentful.  I&#x27;ve often wondered why Lucas picked Richard Marquand to direct RotJ. Arguably, this was one of the most important films to be made in its day, and yet Marquand seemed to lack any credentials that would qualify him for this role. (Yes, I am aware that Lucas pursued David Lynch, and while I think the result would have been interesting, I agree with Lynch&#x27;s own statement that he was not a fit for the material.) It&#x27;s almost as if Lucas was trying to torpedo his own franchise.  And I think that sentiment may explain the prequels. Lucas has been quoted as saying that he wanted to change how films were made. While he succeeded with Star Wars (aka A New Hope), he failed in his ultimate goal. All he did was transfer the Hollywood system to San Francisco. Lucas wanted to be remembered as an innovator in the process, but instead, he would be remembered as the man who created Star Wars...and not even all of that. So many of the important decisions were made by other people. He&#x27;d be remembered as the guy who created the IDEA behind Star Wars, which other people then perfected.  It&#x27;s not hard to see how that could engender resentment. Star Wars simultaneously made him successful and in his mind highlighted his own failure to achieve the goal he had set for himself. If this theory is valid, then there&#x27;s little surprise that he would go about creating a trilogy of prequels designed to tear apart the mythology that had lead to the successful of the original trilogy, and in particular to the success of The Empire Strikes Back, a film that must almost be a slap in the face."
"I went to see this film three times. THREE. This is because various groups of friends / my girlfriend wanted to see it, and wanted me to go with them. What&#x27;s done is done.  Plot: If you are at all familiar with the first Star Wars trilogy then you should have no problems discerning this for yourself.  Acting / Cast: Good cast, mostly. Ewan and Liam are always very watchable, although Ewan&#x27;s accent is a major turn-off for those of us used to the crisp tones of Alec Guiness in the first trilogy. Jake Lloyd grated appallingly, but Natalie Portman was bearable. Terence Stamp is always highly watchable. Jar-Jar Binks was without doubt the most irritating character that I have ever had the misfortune to see on screen, ever, bar none.  Action: There is some. The 2nd and 3rd times I watched the film I slept through the &#x22;pod race&#x22; as it was overly long and really boring. Highlights have to be the light saber fights, which are well choreographed and spectacular. The space battles were ruined by the presence of the young Anakin.  Things I really didn&#x27;t like: The name &#x22;Naboo&#x22;, the Gungans, Jar-Jar flipping Binks, young Anakin&#x27;s standard Hollywood child bowl-cut, young Anakin&#x27;s character at all in fact, &#x22;my young Padawan&#x22;, the Disney-like cartoon characters masquerading as actors to make the film appeal to kiddies and score $$$$$$$$$s, and the fact that the film was far too long. Oh, and the robots were annoying too.  Only really good part of the film: Darth Maul. Without him, I would have rated this 3/10."
"I grew up in the era of the first three and though Return of the Jedi was very flawed I love watching those first three. I was excited to see this movie. I saw it in the first few days it was out and thought it was an embarrassment on so many levels. The story, the voices, the special effects, the story, the characters, were all terrible. It had so few redeeming qualities and none that constitute mention.  It comes on TV today and I decide to give it another shot. It is worse than I remember it. It is unwatchable. I look on IMDb and see it has a decent rating, which has to be because many fans have inflated the ratings. I can only compare this movie to torture. It is sad to see the original creativity to fall to such a low level. It is so sad. It is terrible, terrible, terrible."
"Not only to write a comment about movies like this one (because many love them, at least as many as that loathes them), but especially and more importantly for George Lucas to make this movie. It&#39;s one of the damned if you do, damned if you don&#39;t situations, you wouldn&#39;t like to be a part of!   So even if I don&#39;t think this is a great movie (CG is very good here too, although you might be distracted from CG characters if you&#39;ve seen them as Muppets, in previous films, such as Yoda), the Saga had to start somehow. And because the pressure was so high and many people didn&#39;t think it delivered, they looked for a culprit! And they found themselves one in the (CG) face of one Jar Jar Binks. He&#39;s an easy target indeed, but was invented for family value only. Still Lucas took the (Jar Jar) criticism seriously in his next installments ... Chewbacca he wasn&#39;t!"
"The long awaited &#x22;prequel&#x22; to the Star Wars trilogy is a major disappointment on all levels.The whole new cast characters are merely cardboard figures who show no real dept or emotion.It&#x27;s hard to believe that innocent young Annakin Skywalker will grow up to be the evil Darth Vader. Too many special effects bombard the viewer from beginning ro end. Most of them are so over designed that they create not one sense of awe or wonder. The underwater city looks like a fish bowl ornament, the planet Coruscant looks too much like Fritz Lang&#x27;s Metropolis and the spacecraft are just too uninspiring, especially when compared to the futuristic ones from the previous three episodes.The only good sequence in this mess is the podrace- a sort of rocket powered hot rod race. Taking place in and around a Roman style arena, this sequence obviously owes its debt to the chariot race from Ben Hur- yet even this lacks the excitement or majesty of the sequence it rips off. In all fairness to George Lucas, the Italian Reniassance inspired design of the planet Naboo ain&#x27;t too bad. Other than that, this film is just a total waste of time. You just sit there waiting for something to happen and it doesn&#x27;t. PS- &#x22;ET&#x22; side, has there EVER been a more annoying character than the computer generated Jar Jar Binks?The FORCE ain&#x27;t with this one!"
"To tell the truth, this didn&#39;t fell like a STAR WARS movie nor a George Lucas movie. It felt more like a mix of &quot;Barney in Space&quot; and Tim Burton&#39;s CHARLIE IN THE CHOCOLATE FACTORY! What happened? What made George Lucas slip? Maybe it was because of the Ewoks in RETURN OF THE JEDI! Curse you, Ewoks! Anyway, by far the worst film in the series! The only good part of the film was the good acting from Liam Neeson! And then they had Neeson play second fiddle to some kid named Jake Lloyd! I think the film SHOULD HAVE BEEN focused on the characters of Liam Neeson and Ewan McGregor, and I think the storyline should have been about them hiding Queen Padme in a hidden fortress or something on Naboo! The podracer shmick and the adults putting their lives in the hands of a kid is the same as having Batman save Gotham from the clutches of the muppet Miss Piggy! WHOAH! Good day!"
"I first saw this movie while it was in theaters in 1999 when I was only 12 years old. I had yet to gain respect for the original three for their superb acting, cast, story, atmosphere and special effects and while watching this film through my adolescent mind, I thought it was an excellent action movie. The reason I perceived it to be good is because that is the age level that Lucas was aiming for. It is obvious that Lucas was going to make a fortune off the next three prequels and it appears that he decided to screw the fans of star wars and cash in on a mediocre piece of garbage. Now that I am somewhat older, there is no hiding just how utterly awful this and the next two films are.  The acting in this movie can be compared to the power rangers who have over dosed on Ritalin. No life, no enthusiasm, no sense of the actors really even tiring to put any effort onto the screen. They just seem to be going through the motions all in a monotone voice, and those are the non-CGI characters (the jokes sucked to say the least). Also, with the introduction of Jar Jar, Lucas apparently wanted to make episode 1 as big of a disappointment as possible; how could someone in their right mind insert such mindless character? The only comic relief that Jar Jar will bring is to those under 10 years of age &#150; a real slap in the face to Star Wars fans. On another note, the droids in this movie didn&#39;t have any kind of evil, dangerous feel to them like the storm troopers had.  The plot&#133; humm. Lucas has gone with the flow of most action films lately, in that there is practically no plot. Since this is the first star wars film in the series, there should have taken it easy for us to introduce all the characters and let us learn more about their personalities. Everything is rushed; we get no breaks at all in this movie, just constant action. The Pod race scene wasn&#39;t even necessary; it provided nothing for the story and was only inserted for filler, 20 minutes of filler.  The only this that was remotely positive about this film were the special effects which were still somewhat of a let down, not in it&#39;s authenticity of realism, but everything looked super high tech and clean. Lucas should have tried to keep the 1970 grungy technology feel to everything like the original star wars, which would have helped it really feel like a prequel I am harsh on this movie because of just how well made the original three Star Wars turned out and the high standards they accomplished. Although a somewhat entertaining popcorn flick, I can not enjoy it because of the injustice it does to the original three. It doesn&#39;t deserve to belong to the Star Wars legacy."
"I love Star Wars! The original three that is. I was so excited when I heard this film was coming out. My mind swam with the possibilities of what was to come, but I had to calm myself so that I didn&#39;t get my hopes to high. I didn&#39;t want to go in think this was to be the greatest thing ever and ruin it for myself. Luckily I didn&#39;t have to ruin it cause Lucas did a real good job of it himself.  We start off finding out that there are trade issues or some political blah blah blah and some group we have never heard of have created a road blo... I mean, space block preventing something from happening on this planet called Naboo. The child queen is upset cause no one listens to the problem (that happens when you are only 13, talk about teenage anxiety) and Jedi are sent in to sort the whole thing out.  Here we meet the stale and unresponsive Jedis. HOW CAN THIS BE? These guys are played by two fantastic actors (Liam Neeson and Ewen McGregor). How does Lucas get such bland and flat acting from these two great guys? Well anyways these Jedi are real dumb and get pinned in a room and have to fight off moronic battle droids (not really scary just real annoying and dumb) and end up on Naboo with a Jamacian alien (I don&#39;t understand either).  Here is the First major issue, Jar-Jar Binks. Every time he opens his mouth I wish to shot myself. he is a useless character who provides no comedy, no insight into what is happening and creates no feel of caring for his people from us. A useless tool used by Lucas to let us know he has made so much cash selling action figures he can create an all CGI character, WWWOOOOOOOWWW! The rest goes down hill from there. We get racial and prejudice slurs from the Jedi, moronic plot devices and stupid dialog from the writing, FX that are so easy to see through it makes me embarrassed for the FX guys. Lucas force feeds us useless things that we have no need of (why does Qui-Gon really have to explain the midiclorian thing?) and then gives us even more ridiculous stuff to remind us this is a prequel to the others, did you forget, PROBABLY NOT!! We meet R2-D2, what a coincidence that he happens to meet Luke and Leias mom and dad, C3PO, yet another strange coincidence but get this Anikin made him *barf*. Oh, and get this, Anikin apparently has the hots for the queen, I wonder if they will get married especially after all the cheap moments of the 10 year old hitting on Natalie Portman.  Lucas writing style has really gone down hill or he just doesn&#39;t care anymore. Watch A New Hope and then immediately watch this film and you will be surprised at how childish this one seems. I challenge ya to do it."
"Before this movie even came out, I already knew that it was going to have fancy computer-generated effects, and the technology in this movie will look more advanced than the original 3 episodes, even though this movie takes place way before. In other words, it makes it look like the technology has gotten more primitive. I thought I&#39;d still give it a shot. When it came out on DVD, I rented it to see what it was like.  The bad points:   - Anakin is an annoying little kid, and Jake Lloyd is a horrible actor in this movie   - The special effects are way too fancy. Way too much computer animation. What ever happened to good old puppets?   - The pod race scene is boring, even though it is supposed to be exciting   - They call Anakin &quot;Annie&quot;   - The aliens aren&#39;t interesting at all   - Jar Jar needs to be strangled   - Darth Maul is only in the movie for a few minutes, and he hardly has any lines   - The plot hardly makes any sense   - I could continue this list for hours, but I think that about covers it.  The good points:   Wait, there aren&#39;t any!   I seriously give myself lots of credit for being able to sit through this garbage even once, after which I said &quot;Never again&quot;. I brought it back to Blockbuster and got a refund. I can&#39;t believe that this movie got 3 Oscar nominations, and another 11 wins and 48 nominations. This just shows how phony Hollywood really is. If you haven&#39;t seen it yet, do yourself a favor, and pop in one of the original 3 movies instead."
"What a crock of crap this movie is. It is an absolute abomination... let me name some problems: Boss Nass: geez!, Jar Jar: holy crap--perhaps the worst character ever, Anakin is tremendously annoying, the plot is ridiculous. The only good thing about the movie is Darth Maul and the fight scene... every other thing is bogus. The trade federation, ugh.  It's boring, the pod race thing is overly long and a joke; characters like Sebulba and Wato are clich&eacute;d and underdeveloped. The actually interesting part (potentially) is the Palpatine/Maul story line, but of course it's neglected. This movie was a pile of boring crap.  Star Wars rules, the phantom menace drools."
"After almost two full centuries of absence from the big screen, Star Wars finally comes back to the big screen. Not only that, but it also has a dream team of a starting line-up cast. Liam Neeson, Ewan McGregor and Natalie Portman. There are directors out there who would probably sell their souls for a starting cast like this one. Add to that the prospect of improved special effects and you have yourself a movie with oodles of promise. So here's my question:  &quot;What the hell happened?&quot;  I've seen high school plays with better dialogue than the crap that haunted this picture. And who thought it would be a good idea to make Darth Vader a cute little kid? Although that idea doesn't suck nearly as bad as the true stain on the Star Wars legacy: Jar Jar Binks. Didn't anyone involved in making this film stop to realize how truly annoying this character was before the film came out? Not only does he get just as much screen time as the leads, but he also gets a lot of dialogue, which is really bad because listening to him is like listening to fingernails scratch chalkboard. Another area that the makers of this film totally blew it on was the villain. They create the impressive looking Darth Maul and then totally waste their creation. Bottom line: This film marks to low point of the Star Wars franchise. It is the only movie I don't own from it, with good reason."
"Do I have to comment? I don't want to but since I gave it a 1..  I simply fell in sleep and wanted to leave halfway in the cinema. Some girls in front of me they said they disliked starwars, and seeing ep/1 I had to agree with girls on this one, form now on. STARWARS wasn't what it used to be. I simply did NOT like the way this starwars story-line continued, or more precise told all that was *prior* to the first 3 installments called IV, V and VI.. Storytelling simply went weak. And the art/design of the spacecrafts simple are offensive to starwars and it's saga.   How awful! George What in the hell happened? So much commercialization for well over a few good years prior to its release. So much companies made good money out of franchising the name for toys and other merchandise, But the movie SUCKED! BIG TIME!  Why? Was it far beneath my own expectations? Was it my own fault?  Did George hand the original storyline to a handful of young *smu-ck* writers who did a terrible job in weaving more storyline out of the original concept/idea? Or is George getting old?  Was it the fault of those weak CGI animations? And they had better stick to stop-animation for (my personal opinion) better results?  The first three had *lousy* acting (said by anyone I know), but I just loved them! over and over. beautiful! I still do. After al these years, I watched IV V and VI when I was 5 years old. I have watched IV V and VI numerous times, even when they re-issued in special editions, they were great to see. But these new installments? I simply dislike the stories told (offensive to the old original concept!) Need I comment because there are already a lot of haters out there just like me? Just my 2cents."
"This movie is so unbelievably bad, it is almost unwatchable. This trip to the theatre was one of the few times I seriously considered asking for my money back. The characters were forgettable, the plot ridiculous, and I *hate* movies where some Whiz Kid is the hero. My friend brought his 2 children, aged 4 and 5, which was good, since the entire movie was aimed toward them. Almost all of the special effects money went to creating aliens who were virtually unconnected to the plot. When the Jedi was killed near the end I thought, &quot;who cares&quot; since I couldn't even remember his NAME at that point. On the drive home, I realized that I couldn't name the alien with the big ears, or the Queen or Princess or whoever she was. And I had just seen the movie! If all of them had been killed, I would have just shrugged. The plot, along with the ridiculously bad writing and acting, made it impossible to care about them. All this from a man who saw the original Star Wars 50 - yes FIFTY! - times IN THE THEATRE!  A truly pathetic successor to the brilliant original trilogy."
"I think there's about 1,000+ words to describe how disappointing this movie is for fans of the genre and fans of science fiction, I look to science fiction cause it's the only interesting thing my mind I can't predict well.. And so in the original trilogy we saw much of that greatness in this cheap cash in we saw little of the original..  I finally wanted to know more about why Lucas the man behind the series destroyed the former glory of the series and a little research easily turned it up Gary Kurtz original producer of the first 2 of the original trilogy is largely responsible, a good interview with Kurtz done by FilmForce shows that he was responsible for hiring the director of The Empire Strikes Back and for keeping the film highly original Kurtz described a concept which I think is true of Lucas's writing and directing work to date, he described a movie term called the &quot;Roller-coaster Ride&quot; and that's what Phantom Menace is clearly it's a roller-coaster ride without question..  Why should movies be great? Why should movies inspire to push our moral/social limits? Why should movies have story or imagination? When all we need is a good ride and this is sadness to phantom menace because it comes from the push of movies to a roller-coaster ride..  It's easy to spot the roller-coaster ride in the sequel or #3 in the trilogy &quot;Return of the Jedi&quot; why a 2nd death star? why the ewoks? Where was the originality in #3 we see the originality sapped and the beginning of plagiarisms And Lucas's career continues in this saga with more Indiana Jones with Willow and with Howard the Duck.. there is a extra feature on the DVD of Willow where Ron Howard (Director) and George Lucas (producer writer) talk and you can tell the relationship between two great artists is strained and this was the truth in every movie Lucas made that was good he was strained in both Star Wars and Empire Strikes Back he was challenged and pushed to do better..  In these movies he is not challenged he is in charge and he wants what he wants.. he's lazy and he let's ILM cover his butt on challenges he doesn't want to handle..  George was Director, Executive Producer and Writer on this movie that means that every thing you saw was what he wanted there was no one to say no to him, no one to say what if we did this better, he shot every scene with his movie in mind and in this case with no one there to tell him his vision missed what the public wanted.. this is his movie, this movie will not connect with a audience and therefore it's just wasted cause we know George's film past that George could connect with audiences really well he just didn't want too he was going his own way.. so this film will be forgotten and his original legacy will live on..  This movie is a sad excuse because it provides little enlightenment and shows a once semi-competent producer/visionary/director in a utter-cash in half -ss attempt And I recently watched a re-work of this movie dubbed MAGNOLIAFAN this one edited and slightly changed movie increased the overall feel of this movie by 25%, I have seen this movie perhaps 3 times now and this re-work beat out my previous viewing experiences.. this re-work helps make this movie better and if Director's continue to get rewarded (our money) in the theater for sub-par crap then the Roller-coaster movie cycle and re-works will continue to be in our future..  No one who wants more from movies should ever support the industry in failures such as this one.. the pocketbook speaks to these guys more then anything.. I think old George has gotten too much approval for sub-par work and I'm sure he thanks his marketing people most generously"
"It's got to be the plot, I think the film bores you into a state that makes it almost impossible to follow its meaningless intricacies as well as giving a confused and abbreviated version of a story that seems to lead nowhere. I suppose it was aimed at children really, though the special effects are nothing to shout about and I think it was a big mistake having Empire soldiers that looked funny rather than scary like stormtroopers.  If I remember correctly George Lucas wrote nine books for three films, then realised that one book would fill a film so chose the fourth as the original Star Wars. Probably he chose the best one as well as makes sense. I think he did so well last time with a team that invented photoshop to make the special effects and such whereas in the latest films they're sub par."
"This film was rubbish. Watch LOTR and see how special effects should be used. They should support the story, not be the story. The characters were silly, the film was childish and everything was ridiculous. I won't waste anymore comments. This film has managed to actually spoil my opinion of the original trilogy.  The story starts with a bunch of special effect and silly spaceshifts. All the actors perform badly, even the black guy from Pulp Fiction! After this, there is some Jedi council and a green guy with a long neck talking some gibber gabber about the universe. Then there are a few armies and some fighting. Here we get more silly special effects and computer stuff to hide the lack of plot, acting and directing. The new characters are pathetic compared to Harrison Ford. Also the landscapes are nothing but effects and looks silly.  At the end some spaceships fly around and a few people get hurt. Then there is somemore spaceships and something else happened. What a load of rubbish."
"This film was eagerly awaited by millions of people who have been brought up on Star Wars across the world, and I'm afraid to say that a vast majority of these people have been sadly let down.  It is plainly obvious from this film that George Lucas is not a director but can now and then have a good idea. He manages to extract the poorest performances from a pretty renowned set of actors (which I suppose is a difficult task in itself) and relies far to heavily on the special effects to carry the film.  The film does not warrant any lengthy explanation of why it is so bad as it is plain to see for anyone who has actually had the mis-pleasure of sitting through it.  All I can say is for gods sake don't let Lucas near the final film in the series!"
"When I was about 7 or 8 my Mum took my brother and I to see Return of the Jedi. This was my introduction to the world of Star Wars and it blew my little mind. I'll never forget some of the most memorable characters ever put to celluloid.  When Phantom came I wanted to see it so bad...My friends and I made it a 'get wasted on noxious chemicals and buzz out' kind of a night. What we did not know is that the film would be so well...boring, lame and uninteresting. The film audience at a midnight showing can be very telling of a films greatness. In this case, remember when Jar-Jar was stumbling around in the final battle. NO ONE LAUGHED!!! Remember when Anakin was on auto pilot and ended up accidently flying into the battle in outer space. NO ONE LAUGHED!!!  Why does this film suck? Well the acting is universally awful. Liam Neeson comes off best. Mcgregor is extremely camp, which makes me wonder if he was taking the mickey out of the whole thing. Jake Lloyd is awful! Just awful! Wasn't 'Jingle all the way' a film that taught everyone that Jake Lloyd should not be allowed to do movies? He is like an even less talented Macaulay Culkin. The best example of bad acting from Lloyd is when he has to say goodbye to his Mother. Now if that actually took place the kid would be torn apart inside and would be a mess of claws and tears. Lloyd plays it like he has to go to summer camp for the first time and its a bit of a bummer. Not that he is being separated from HIS ONLY FAMILY for what will be a very long period of time. The acting is JUST SO BAD and I suspect it is because Lucas can't direct actors. Faster, more intense are probably not the best directions that you can give to your performers.  For anyone who is interested I suggest you read Peter Biskino's 'Easy Riders, Raging Bulls.'In this book Biskino writes that Lucas always had an ambivalent attitude towards Star wars. It made him but also defined him. As a director he would be as typecast as Mark Hamil was as Luke Skywalker. It also says that Lucas would never make anymore Star War's films for this reason. This is where I think the film goes wrong. The films are about money and showing off what digital special effects can do. This series fails because the script is terrible but the special effects are incredible. Special effects do not make a movie. There is something sadly ironic about the fact that this has happened to this series. There were so many bad Star Wars clone movies, like Battlestar Galatica. Star Wars always had the leading edge on special effects, story and characters. This all falls to pieces here. To all you movie directors out there. Well written characters and decent acting make a movie, not effects.  There are some other people who have commented that the film is good because it has some great looking worlds. For example, the underwater city that features at the beginning of the film. Or the chariot-speedster race that is obviously a wink to Ben-Hur. These things just make the movie look like a god-damn video game and do not add anything at all to the movie. To me these things are like Guy 'one trick' Ritchie. It is just visual showing off for no particular reason. It certainly does not do anything for the weak and ill conceived story.  One of the worst parts of the films to me is when Anakins mother says that he was immacutely conceived. This of course has religious connotations. Anakin as the 'one.' GROAN!!! C'mon this is just lazy writing and an easy way of getting rid of any Father figure.  Because of the business factor Lucas seems worried about his audience. he certainly does not want to get too dark. But if you think back to the original trilogy there are dark moments in all three films. Therefore a minimum of Darth Maul is seen on screen, which is a shame because he is the most interesting character. But if he started speaking, maybe we would have hated him to. Well at least N'sync are nowhere to be seen.  There is also the racial nightmare inherent in the film. What was Lucas thinking? The trade federation guys accent seem to be suspiciously Asian of some kind. Of course thet would mean they are greedy and insidiously evil. Watto, his penchant for profit and his big nose, is this anti-semitism? Jar Jar, more racial stereotyping? I mean was there someone there saying, 'hey George! That's a bit dodgy!'  Its all just another nail in the coffin for the series. Lucas has now proved what I have always thought. He is no Kubrick or Renoir, he is a special effects guy. When Star Wars originally came out critics stated that the film was infantilizing the audience. What the hell is this doing? This is the little rascals in space with all the dodgy 1950's political incorrectness.  Lord of the Rings, the Matrix films and the Star Wars prequels. These films seem to have dominated the box office these last few years. But it is Lord of the Rings, which is the only one where I care to see how it ends. The other two series I could not care less about the characters. To me that is very telling of the quality of the film. Even though this is a Star Wars film, I give it a 1 limping stormtrooper running away from 10 angry Tuscan Raiders. Avoid, unless you are a huge fan."
"This film surely ranks as one of the biggest disappointments of all time. I liked it better the first time Lucas made it - when it was just good old STAR WARS (Episode IV). The plot was familiar, the fight scenes derivative of the original film.... Even the special effects seemed old and re-hashed. Just a let-down all around."
"I'm a fan of the Star Wars saga, episodes 4-6, probably more than the average film buff. The argument that critics of this movie are lacking in objectivity seems to make sense, but is actually totally false. I so very much wanted to like this movie...I begged my brain to like this movie. There are simply too many problems, however, that I cannot forgive. The acting is wooden, the script is absurd, the dialogue unintentionally hilarious, and the cast is wasted. Anakin Skywalker as a virgin birth? Criminy. Jar Jar Binks is the most annoying character in film history. Mr. Lucas, to get a refresher course on how to create an epic masterpiece, see Lord of the Rings...many times."
"Dreadfully dull.  Yeah, I was swept up by the Star Wars hype when the original movie was released.  I was just a kid.  I grew up.  Yeah, Star Wars is a fun movie, but the plot is paper thin and that dialogue---yikes! With each subsequent continuation of the story, I was caught up in the hype. Still a kid, mind you.  What happened?  Well, I grew up.  Saw the movies again, took them for what they are...good old fashioned entertainment. I'm not surprised at how hooked people are on this series.  They are fun. Kool-Aid was pretty tasty when I was a kid, too."
"Anyone can say anything, this movie is even stupider than a Japanese cartoon (like Pok&eacute;mon)! The story is idiot, some characters are EVEN STUPIDER THAN TELETUBBIES! For example, Jar-Jar Binks, who is an idiot, crazy, characteristic-less frog with long tongue. Or Darth Maul who is a red, horned devil in black robe (and he is the FRIGHTENING bad guy?!). And some scenes are even worse, like when the two Jedi Knights visiting the &quot;frog king&quot; or when the boy genius Anakin races in the pod race (and wins!!!). These scenes are just in the movie to become a 2 hours long child story. I am a hard-core Trekkie, but also I know what is bad. And this IS bad!"
"Yes, I'll say first off I'm one of those people who was geeked for this film went it came out, and walked out of the theatre hating it.  I still hate it, it is just a bad film.  If it wasn't Star Wars, would I hate it as much? Honestly, probably not, but I don't think I'd like it either.  This film fails on every level for me.  It reads like a collection of loose scenes that Lucas imagined, then conjured up a lame story to tie together. For NE1 out there who thinks he had the whole story planned out back in the day, you really need to learn to research things.  This movie illustrates at every level how not only did he not ever plan the story, but he didn't even have any ideas on what to say in the 1st 3 movies.  Now that I've seen Ep. II, I can say for sure, that Lucas is a technician, who can achieve amazing things with special effects, but he is not a director or a writer.  He must have had a *lot* of help back on the originals to come up with such better films back then.  Of course, it helped that he didn't direct most of them.  Lucas still manages wooden performances with great actors.  So what's bad about Ep. I?  The midicholorians, the plot (lack thereof), the horrible racial stereotypes (which if it's not intentional, is just plain embarrassing), the main villain's lack of screen time or even development, Jar jar (a crime against every person who ever liked Star Wars).  Really it comes down to this... I was 4 when the original came out and Luke Skywalker did not have to be 4years old for me to relate to him.  By making Anakin a child, Lucas made a gigantic mistake.  The biggest weakness of this film can really be summed up like this:  This film is childish whereas the original was childlike.  That's at least how I see it.  If it weren't for the Star Wars name, this film would've sunk like the stone it is."
"While there may be movies that have worse acting,  technical  accomplishment, or stories, none of those films have cost as  much or desecrated a cherished childhood memory the way  &quot;Phantom Menace&quot; does. While Lucas has committed many  crimes with this film (replacing character and story with CGI, for  one; vaguely veiled derogatory racial stereotypes for another), the  cardinal sin of this film is that is unbearably boring. I suspect  &quot;Cannonball Run&quot; on a worn-out VHS tape would be more  involving."
"Wow, I don't even know where to start. This is probably the only movie I have ever given a 1, because it was truly horrible in every aspect.  The Phantom Menace has a plot that, uhm, well is there a plot? The 'Trade Federation' blocks traffic to and from a planet in the hope of forcing the planet's leader to sign some paper. Where's the excitement in that? What happened to saving the universe and action, as in parts 4-6?  Secondly, the characters. Whoever did the casting for this movie deserves to never be given another job in Hollywood. Anakin is an irritating little boy, Natalie is supposed to portray some powerful and wise queen (mind you she's 15 years old!) and who on earth would cast Samuel Jackson as a jedi? Riiiight! When I see him, I don't see a jedi, I see an irritating actor from other movies who has NO place here! Same goes for Liam Neeson. Hollywood, get this through your head, DO NOT cast people like that in parts like this.  Furthermore, the parts given to the characters are pathetic. What we see here is a 15 year old girl who is supposedly all big and bad, telling everyone what to do. She not only runs the planet as queen and president, but she is also an accomplished general and trained in fighting, tactics and scaling off the walls of buildings. Riiiight... And then there's Anakin, a 7 year old who happens to be launched into space in a spaceship for the first time alone near the end of the movie. And he blows up the blockade by himself! There are dozens of experienced pilots trying the same and failing, but somehow this little 7 year old, who has no combat experience or no piloting skills, succeeds! Please, don't insult my intelligence, this just turns my stomach.  Then there's the fact that the whole movie seems to be written for 10 year olds. That irritating and pathetic Jar Jar, the heroic child and teen queen, the dialogues which are an insult to my intelligence. Add this to the CGI effects that look like, well, CGI effects, and the whole is just some junk kid movie. I've seen 30 year old scifi movies that had better effects (and I won't even mention plots). Don't people realize that CGI just looks fake? Use models! Claymation!  Anyway I can go on like this, but the point is that this is a childish movie with bad special effects, miscasting, and an insult to anyone's intelligence. Avoid at ALL costs."
"It takes one hell of a script to make great actors like Ewan McGregor and Liam Neeson look bad but somehow this film managed it. There was no plot to speak of and where was the characterization? OK, so they saved the world at the end but I really didn't care and Darth Maul was a boring villain - he wasn't even scary, bring back Darth Vader. The movie looked great but in the end it was a triumph of style over substance. An insult to the original trilogy."
"This was nothing more than greed and ego run amuck.  George Lucas' contribution to cinema is secure in history, but this film (and most likely the next two) will definitely taint a once flawless image.  I knew once I saw the re-issues of the first three films that Episode One would be terrible.  Lucas, I don't know, maybe's it's living up their in the thin air of Skywalker Ranch, but has lost all sense of reality.  Lucas was a victim of his own creation.  He's done so much to push the boundaries of technology with computers that in this film it bit him on the ass.  In STAR WARS (1977) this is supposed to be the future to Episode One (1999), so, how's it possible all the technology (weapons, computers, spaceships, etc.) are all more advanced than in the past?  There's no way around that one.  Secondly, if the First &quot;death Star&quot; was destroyed by a lone pilot flying into the middle and blowing it up, why would the future Empire construct its new Death Star to be destroyed the exact same way?  And then again for RETURN OF THE JEDI?  Lucas is gone.  Light's on and nobody's home.  And I haven't even mentioned Jar Jar.  Lucas has done many, many excellent things for film, but what's past does not appear to be prologue."
"After reading what the other users have said in their comments, there is little left for me to add.  However, I wanted to emphasize that as a true Star Wars fan, this movie was nothing more than insulting.  I hated it from start to finish.  George Lucas dropped the ball with this one, that's for sure.  I wont waste time telling you how incredibly stupid Jar Jar Binks was.  He was the worst of all the idiotic characters depicted in the film and everybody already knows that.  This movie was not done in the same way that Star Wars and Empire Strikes Back were done.  No, this was more in the style of George Lucas' other atrocity, HOWARD THE DUCK.  There was NO character development, the plot was non-existent, and the light saber fights were over done, too flashy, boring, and completely under motivated.  I admit, I will stand in line like a moron to see the next movie.  And George Lucas will get richer because of my stupidity.  But lets just hope that maybe, JUST MAYBE, he actually learned something from the fiasco that was THE PHANTOM MENACE.  I am not asking for much, maybe just a coherent story line, and maybe gear the movie towards people that have an IQ greater than that of an average 1st grader.  THE PHANTOM MENACE SUCKED!  Bottom line."
"The Phantom Menace could have been a good movie.  The drawback is that Mr. Lucas lost sight of what made the first three Star Wars films so good.  In the first Star Wars trilogy the films were based on characters and plot. The Phantom Menace, on the other hand, tries to rely entirely on special effects.  The plot isn't good and the characters are not developed at all. The only upside is that the back story to the first three films is being told.  This could have been done in many ways, and probably should have been done in some other way, instead of making a disappoinging film that takes away from the power of the first trilogy."
This movie was an insult to the intelligence of everyone with an age in double digits. Everyone who enjoyed the first two movies was let down enough by the cutesyness of the &quot;ewoks.&quot; This movie takes that &quot;unstrap me so I can puke&quot; feeling you get from the Ewok scenes and multiplies it tenfold with Jar Jar Binks.
"The Phantom Menace is possibly the most disappointing movie I've ever seen. First of all, while the original trilogy was targeted at young adults and older, Phantom Menace seems to be aimed at children.  The character of Jar Jar Binks is incredibly irritating.  He serves no purpose other than comic relief (although I'm not sure he was all that comical and he sure didn't do too much to relieve anything).  One might recall Lucas's use of R2-D2 and C3P0 for comic relief in the original trilogy and argue that Jar Jar serves the same purpose, but one must also keep in mind, R2 and 3P0 are both in the Phantom Menace as well again providing us with comic relief.  One must also realize, while R2 and 3P0 provide a quick chuckle now and then Jar Jar is meant to be a walking laughfest of slapstick humor and just does not pull that off well at all.  Also, Anakin Skywalker, one of the lead roles, is a child in the movie.  Whereas adult characters appeal to an adult audience, young children appeal to child audiences, only further distancing Phantom Menace from the originals.  And this leads to my second point, Lucas doesn't bother keeping with continuity.  In the original movies, Obi Wan Kenobi claims he first met Anakin Skywalker when Anakin was a rebel fighter pilot, not a young boy.  Lucas blatantly ignores continuity throughout the entire film making it confusing and just painful to watch.  Another thing that killed the movie is Darth Maul.  Maul's face was plastered all over magazines, posters, trailers and ads hyping him as the film's primary villain and then he only gets about 8 minutes of screen time.  What a rip-off!  Lastly, the movie's ending is pointless, confusing, boring, and anti-climactic.  The Phantom Menace was just a horribly overrated piece of junk that doesn't deserve its place in the Star Wars franchise."
"Oh wow, the trade federation has problems, now let me think, is there any reason to start a war with a worthless planet called Naboo (dumb name). I mean, the empire has better things to do like explore the galaxy and find something new to do. The emotional acting was so hopelessly implemented, and I don't know why there are no battleships, only these tine wenee little fighters. That space station was so big and fired so many lasers, I expected the rebellion to be rebelling against itself based on command, and it launched a countless amount of Droid Fighters, it launched and absoloute armada, and 1 little fighter manages to get thru, thats ridiculously impossible. All I saw was green and red lights flying around, my friends were amazed but I was thinking i've seen better, in future their are knights? the force is so stupid, they could have used the force till everyone was dead! but noooo. no big ships, real failure there, no big guns, no rocket launchers or laser machine gun, just puny little pistols, hopeless... i've seen old shows kick this movie, Alien was an absoloute hit, much better than Star Wars, First Contact was heaps good, anything could do better than Star Wars, even a child's imagination."
"two hours of my life that will never return  Nowhere near as good as the REAL star wars trilogy!  could have been called star wars episode 1: the phantom plot.  Natalie Portman,Liam Neeson,Ewan McGregor, Frank Oz, and Samuel L Jackson did the best they could with this script that seemed like a bad ABC after-school special. what were these gifted actors thinking when they signed up?  This tripe is way below their talent level.  The anikin kid was pathetic, i think he needs some acting lessons from Haley Joel Osment (sixth sense).  Im so glad that The Matrix swept all the special effects oscars, and left this garbage with nothing.  In The Matrix, special effects were placed sparingly in the background to complement an intriguing story. In SWE1, special effects were placed in the foreground to make-up for an intellegence-insulting attempt at a story. It was as if Lucas and Co were hoping that a laser and light show would destract us enough for us to ignore plot structure.  AND THE EFFECTS TOTALLY SUCKED! i mean the bluescreen shots of the bikes flying in the sky in E.T. were more convincing!  All in all, it seems that the Star Wars franchise is looking pretty grim at this point."
"A great movie to watch at the theaters.  Video does not do this justice.  Even the Widescreen edition on a 64 inch TV will not suffice.  This is rather unfortunate because the movie comes to rely on the effects to fill in the plot holes, additionally the Muppets are more feared than the droids in the movie.  Good movie to watch once.  Rating 5.5 / 10"
"The Phantom Menace is absolutely horrible.  Bad writing, bad directing, bad editing, bad acting, etc.  Perhaps the worst movie of 1999.  Don't be fooled into thinking that Jar Jar was the only problem with this film. There are far too many things bad to list here.  If you like to have your intelligence insulted time and time again with ridiculous plot elements and just plain stupidity, then this is the movie for you.  If you watch movies to see swirling pretty colors rather than a good story, then this is the movie for you.  If you like to reward shameless marketing and poorly rehashed plot outlines, then this is the movie for you.  I simply have one question for Mr. Lucas:  Why, George?  For the love of God, why??!!"
"When I first saw this movie I was excited, because Im a big Star Wars fan.  Then when I saw It felt that George Lucas had ruined a saga and turned into a weak merchandise empire.  First of all the the movie has a bad plot - oh save Naboo from the Trade Federation, this is obviously weaker compared to the establishment of a great evil force in the original trilogy.  George Lucas answered to Darth Vader with Darth Maul, who was a stupid character with an evil grin in red and black makeup.  Then there were the two lead charcters in Qui Gon and Obi Wan, I felt that there could of been some conflict here, and have taught us something more behind the ways of the Jedi.  But no, nothing good here altho I like both these actors they just had bad roles in a bad script.  Then there is the ever annoying and artificial charcter Jar Jar who weakens the movie considerably, and is just plain stupid.  C3PO and R2D2 makje a return but they suck.  The movie also has moments where you feel the flow is terrible, at parts the storyline is slow and boring, and added with the unecessary and childish pod race it feels like a cheap kids movie not bringing us the original qualities of episodes 4,5,&amp; 6.  This movie lacked creative wisdom and more so any direction from George Lucas.  In all a terrible film that made millions, and didn't deserve a cent of it.  Go back to the drawing board George Lucas and lets hope Episode 2 is more thought out."
"Why did Lucas let this film go to ruin is beyond me. It had great potential, in fact the amazing Jedi scenes in the first 10 minutes made me almost cry tears of pure space movie joy. We have never seen the real Jedi's in action so this was fantastic. Then Jar Jar walked in and I was disgusted with the whole thing. If it hadn't been for the friends I was with, I would have walked. It's so bad I won't even dignify the film further with a description. The idea that cute commercial content = even bigger bucks than just making a great film really bites."
"I was so happy that this abomination of a movie won no Oscars...The Matrix was superb and deserved all 4...  Over played effects took control over the lousy story...  Jar Jar binks is a discrace as the Non-comic relief... Wooden acting by Anikan... What's with the OOOpps! In every scene he's in. The Queen is like a puppet held up with strings... Dth Maul is obvously most peoples fav character, so why was he in the film for 10 minutes only...Was George Lucas Jelous of his popularity... Everything in this movie was done to easy...Destroying the federation ship, pod race and those two headed fools"
"I have been a fan of the Star Wars movies since the original trilogy. Both Star Wars and The Empire Strikes Back are among my all-time favorite movies, and like others, I had anxiously awaited the fourth movie....But time -- and other movies (The Matrix, Batman [1989], Independence Day, Titanic, The Shawshank Redemption, Pulp Fiction, Fargo, etc.) tempered my interest. I only had a minor interest in seeing this movie, but now I have, and unfortunately, it is not only worst than the long and loud Return of the Jedi, but is one of the most pathetic movies I've seen in a long time. This is a sad example of what happens when you have too much money and spfx on your hands -- and not a clue to what makes a decent plot. Lucas has had nearly 20 years to develop a story, and instead fell way short. The screenplay is more serious than a Biblical epic, and with fewer laughs. The story did not keep my attention, and left me empty and feeling nothing. These characters - unlike their predecessors - were so distant, I didn't care what happened to any of them. I felt no emotion when Anakin and his mother part; or none when the Neeson character is killed. I wanted to know more about Darth Maul, but was told nothing. And the pod race (which went on and on and on....) was practically lifted from Ben-Hur. The fabulous Samuel L. Jackson was quite wasted, as was Neeson. The least said about Jake Lloyd the better; as a movie buff, I've seen dozens of more talented child actors. Jar-Jar Binks was annoying, but not overly objectionable, for his human counterparts performed - for the most part - worst than the puppet did. I had hoped for more from McGregor and Portman, but after over 2 hours, no longer cared. The final scene - reminiscent of the celebration at the end of the first SW movie - was more pitiful than happy. It is regrettable that this is what Lucas has offered after all these years, and I can only feel sad in thinking that his next 2 movies will likely be more of the same. He'll just slap Star Wars in the title -- and they will come. But not me."
I had heard this was a poor effort before I saw it. A few minutes into the film I realised it was a lot worse than I had been expecting. If Lucas wanted this to be a film for children under 12 then he succeeded. If this is meant to appeal to those of us who remember seeing the first 3 in the cinema all those years ago then I can't fathom his reasoning.  The FX are good and that's about all. Those of us who hate Independence Day know that flashy effects can't disguise what is essentially rubbish.
"This movie has to be one of the most disappointing pictures ever released. First a recap of the originals. Star Wars-great, stands on its own; Empire- expands on the first one and goes even deeper; Jedi- Good for kids but just rehashed plots from the first one, also got too cute, but still pretty good. This prequel is only a big expensive toy for George Lucas to play with. Bad script, Bad acting, (esp Jake Lloyd, where was the kid from the Sixth Sense?) with everyone stands around and recites stupid lines, cardboard characters... I can&#x27;t go on I&#x27;m too depressed, taking a great franchise and ruining it. If I sound harsh,I am. These were movies I grew up with and now I have a bad taste in my mouth. I will see the other two coming out because i&#x27;m a glutton for punishment. Please Mr. Lucas, make them better. For fans who Star Wars can do no wrong, they will like it anyway. But for movies buffs who just like good movies please don&#x27;t ruin a once great thing."
"The visuals in the movie were stunning, but nothing else was really worthy of remaining in my theater seat. It was hard to see any motivation behind any of the characters. They were simply there. Jarjar looked like a revival of Butterfly McQueen's character from Gone with the Wind, very sad in the 1990's. I find the future relationship between Amadala and Anakin especially creepy since she assumed a maternal role in this film. This movie seems like Lucas was trying so hard to keep secrets for the next film that he told us absolutely nothing. I rented all three of the previous films and enjoyed them greatly, so what was the problem here. Also, I'm curious as to Lucas' odd obsession with British actors, given that the other three films were principally played by Americans?!"
"Just a big commercial for ILM.   Interesting to note George Lucas's wife left him around the time of ROTJ.  It also seems to be the point of George's &quot;selling out&quot;.   George has spent the subsequent years as a Mr. Mom to his adoptive children, which has emasculated him as a filmmaker.  He can't make any kind of cinematic decision without taking into consideration if it will harm &quot;the children&quot;.     George changed the Greedo scene in Star Wars, one of the most memorable scenes in movie history, because it wasn't politically correct.  (George has also expressed displeasure at the scene in Raiders of the Lost Ark when Indy shoots the swordsman, another film classic.)   A filmmaker cannot make a good movie by playing it safe.  I wouldn't be surprised if Episode III ends with Anakin not becoming Vader; I don't think Mommy George has the stones for it."
"Considering that George Lucas has not directed a feature in 22 years, it's not surprising that while, SWTPM, has its share (more than its share) of effects, it's very short on plot or acting.  Most of the actors looked confused and more wooden than the robots they communicate with.  (Samuel L. Jackson looks to be in the wrong movie entirely.)  It's a shame that someone with the vision of Lucas has so little ability to see that vision come to life.  In two or three years, the film will be completely forgotten.  In fact, during the screening I saw in Hollywood, the audience pretty much went to sleep after their initial excitement at the first twenty minutes or so. The loudest reaction was for C3PO and R2D2. Truly a disappointment and not a very worthy sequel to such a film as &quot;The Empire Strikes Back&quot;, which was really a breathtaking film."
"I was a true Star Wars fan.  I have shelves full of toys.  I own the original movies.  I was so disappointed by the Phantom Menace that I very well might not see Episode II.  I tried as hard as I could to walk in with no expectations, but even no expectations were too many.  The movie was terrible.  I can't go too deep into my disappointment without spoiling the movie, but I felt that there were so many things in the plot that could have been handled in a way that was better for the movie and for the story overall.  Unlike the powerful archetypes of episodes 4-6 we have shallow shells that drift about upon the whims of fate, blown here and there by accidental occurrences.  These accidental occurrences rob the movie of any dramatic value, leaving it as empty and pointless as most the characters. Visually, the movie was stunning, but that was about it."
"Now what can I say? I can't much (or more like don't even want to) analyze this movie at this point... if ever. ;) This only begins the great story that goes on in the Star Wars films and that story is in nowhere near completion, so it's pointless to criticize this one particular flick when no one hasn't yet seen the whole story. So much more is to be revealed in the upcoming films that will patch and then continue with the story... probably for generations to come! ;)  As just a separate story alone this one would have been an excellent one also. The performance of the whole cast and the plot turned both convincing and very much enjoyable and thrilling. Special effects are getting so unbelievably real-looking these days that it was just amazing, honestly. You didn't need to concentrate on or get annoyed by them because they were there so naturally that they weren't the main interest (altho spectacular nonetheless!) but vividly supported the story being told by their half.  Great action scenes (that 'supernatural martial arts'-fighting choreography is way cool, and it's always a magical moment when they combat one to one with old trusty light sabers), humor (which I've always liked in SW-flicks), lack of romance (ehh.. that kinda stuff just doesn't fit in too comfortably in SW's.. This is not the Titanic... Not meant as an offense tho -ed), aliens/creatures/droids/ships/etc (it's always fun to see how the artists or whoever like to picture them and portray how they act or function), stunning scenery and the whole concept of the Force. ;) You can catch all that just by watching this film.  Just awesome film. Can't wait to see more! Hardly any Star Wars fan finds this pure trash (on the contrary) but also I'd like to think that people who are not too interested in this whole entertainment product called Star Wars still find this movie a great one despite that. Highly recommended to anyone who likes a good fairy tale. That's just what this movie is about. Where the good ultimately conquers the evil. GREAT!"
"I had the misfortune of seeing Episode 1 last night.  It is an over-glorified cartoon, it's badly written, badly acted and unbelievably uninvolving, I didn't care what happened to any of the characters, except for Natalie Portman who was fantastic in it.  She and Liam Neeson were the only two actors in the film with true presence.  Ewan McGregor was awful, Jake Lloyd tragically miscast, he was by far the most annoying thing to appear on the cinema screen ever.  It shows how bad a writer and director Lucas is, when the computer animated characters have more life than the actors.  Darth Maul is perhaps the most pointless character ever, he was in it for 5 minutes, said about one line, and showed absolutely no background or anything.  He just stood there, not looking like a Dark Lord of the Sith, but like a guy with bad red and black face paint and crudely stuck on horns on his head.   There were some good things, Natalie Portman was fantastic and did extremely well, especially considering how badly written it was.  Liam Neeson was perfect also, truly captured a Jedi Knight.  But as I said, the worst thing in the movie was Jake Lloyd, he couldn't act, unlike all the other actors, he had an extremely annoying grating American accent and said some of the most woefull, line and delivered them terribly.  Lucas must have felt that he didn't need to give the characters background as technically this was the background for episodes 4-6 and as a result I didn't care whether anyone lived or died, and as you knew who was going to live and who was more than likely going to die it was immensely predictable. The film lacked any emotion, I had no feeling other than boredom during the film, the acting was wooden and one dimensional. At one point in the film Jake Lloyd said &quot;Woah, this is tense,&quot; yeah right!"
"(Taking an immortal line from the original Obi Wan and twisting it a bit.) This piece is an answer to the question plaguing George Lucas and looming over the coming episodes: how to get rid of the most annoying race of creatures (and quite possibly the one character in all of cinematography who most deserves to be shot... twice). It was picked up on a galactic news feed.  A Great Celebration in the Force  Rubber Nilly, GP (Galactic Press)  NABOO, OUTER GALAXY, Reports emerged today from one of the more obscure planets on the Federation Trade routes of the disappearance and apparent deaths of an entire race of moose-headed, web-eared, frog-tongued, underwater dwelling isolationists calling themselves &quot;Gungun,&quot; or, loosely translated, &quot;First-born of Much Vexation.&quot;  Early details are sketchy, but it has been confirmed that every member of this young but proud race met with gruesome fates at the hands of their brothers.  Captain Banaka, Prime Captain of Queen Amidala's Palace Guard and Polo Champions, first discovered the absence of the Naboo neighbors early last week. &quot;It was strange. One day they were there, the next, not. We knew because the air was a lot fresher when they were gone.&quot;  Attempts to investigate the Gunguns' disappearance have been slightly hampered by the presence of enormous reptilian carnivores in the lake where the Gungun made their homes, but more strongly by a general apathy by all involved as to the whereabouts or well being of this noble race. Said one search party member who wished to remain anonymous, &quot;Sure we're out here looking, but what are we looking for? The Gungun! And why are we looking, I mean, they were fricking annoying now, weren't they?&quot;  Asked to comment, George Lucas had this to say, &quot;Apparently there was a problem in the lab with the development of the Gungun. It appears that our team of design engineers missed the genes for annoyance, un-intelligibility, and rampant cannibalism in the DNA slurry that was the basis for the Gungun, mistaking these genes for those of charm, wit, and importance in the script.&quot; Animation experts are saying that it was only a matter of time before the Gungun self-destructed into a primitive, ritualistic struggle to climb the food chain of their society.  Apparently, one Gungun by the name of Jar Jar Binks survived this degeneration into cannibalism, taking refuge with Queen Amidala in her palace during the past month. However palace reports now say that just two days ago he was hung, shot, flayed, and burned for allegedly stealing the Queen's good bologna. So, indeed, there are no Gungun left on Naboo, nor anywhere else in the Galaxy.  When confronted with this palace report and the assertion that the degeneration of the Gungun had been severely aided by the gift of a bright blue ball of.something and the radiation this ball of whatever-the-hell-that-was must have been giving off to the Gungun, the Queen denied both claims with a shrug and the matter was promptly dropped for lack of interest..  The apparent tenor toward these digital denizens of the deep can be best summarized by quoting the ancient jedi master, Yoda, who, upon feeling the removal of the life-energies of the Gungun from the Force, was heard to say, &quot;About time, it is.&quot;"
"A great disappointment. Lucas merely repeats his past. Little about this movie makes it worth seeing on the big screen. Indeed, it may not even be worth renting. The plot is a re-hash (or a jumble, perhaps) of the original three movies.  There are also a number of character portrayals that border on being ethnic and/or racial slurs, to put it kindly. Considering the talent George Lucas has, it seems unfortunate that he would choose to debase it in this way."
"I waited with the most gleeful anticipation to see this movie, see I'm one of the million &quot;star wars fanatics&quot; out there.  I saw the movie.  I walked out of the theater wondering, &quot;what happened?&quot;  It's as if the director/producer Mr. Lucas, never realized that the original trilogy was great not just because of the special effects, but because it was a great movie.  Compare Phantom Menace to the any one of the original Star Wars films.  In the original trilogy, there was a plot that always kept moving, always a reason to get to the next part of the film, always a level of suspense that kept the movie going.  Those movies never took 25 minutes out of the film for scenes with bland dialogue, super-cheesy acting, and no suspense, only to follow this monstrosity with a pod race which, though great in special fx, had NOTHING to do with the final outcome of the movie, the characters, or anything else that was thrown into this film. Another difference between the classic trilogy and the Phantom Menace: the conflict between good &amp; evil.  During every major fight scene in the original trilogy, there was a level of personal character conflict between the characters (Luke finding out his relation to Darth Vader, Obi-wan Kenobi meeting his old adversary and former friend, etc).  This conflict was ALWAYS more important than the external light-saber fights.  In the Phantom Menace, all we have is a big choreographed, special fx-enhanced fight between characters who we know little about.  Why are they even fighting?  Good vs. Evil I guess, but there's no conflict.  ...and since when do they use Kung-Fu in Star Wars????  In the classic trilogy, it was always traditional medevil-style sword fighting, and now it's flip-kick-jump-do-a-twirly-thing-with-your-sword. Sure, it's kinda fun to watch, but it all boils down to a fight with NO REAL REASON FOR CONFLICT.    And then there's the humor...   Here we have Jar-jar Binks, a clumsily-walking, unintelligibly-talking, alien, who has NO personality, and spends all of his time flopping around acting stupid to make the little kids in the audience laugh.  In the original movies, all of the humor came from the characters and their personalities.  Example:  In Episode IV, we know that Han Solo is a somewhat laid-back, loner who seems to be only interested in money, and doesn't take orders from anyone. Princess Leia has already shown herself to be someone who is used to taking charge of a situation, and who can be sarcastic and serious at the same time.  When Han has to rescue her, there's a tremendous amount of personality conflict and witty little comebacks between the two of them. This is funny.  A five-year-old might miss the humor in the screenplay here, but it's funny.  Absolutely nowhere in the original trilogy did we have someone with no personality do dumb stuff to try to make us laugh. Also, in the original trilogy, the adventure was the key to the films success.  It was an epic adventure composed of characters who learn their destinies, and develop their relationships and personalities.  In the Phantom Menace, we know nothing about the characters personalities, because all they give us is a mish-mash of bland dialogue that doesn't develop any feelings, emotion, personality, or character whatsoever.    Phantom Menace also had little lines here &amp; there about how bad gambling is, and how people should help eachother.  It's a good message, but it should have no place in this movie.  The first trilogy never dealt with moral issues.  It was beyond that.  In Phantom Menace, the good guys are 100% moral, and the bad guys are 100% evil.  In the classic trilogy, even most of the good guys had a darker-side;  Lando sold out his friends to Vader, only to make it up by rescuing them later.  Han and Chewie were both gamblers, and lived somewhat &quot;outside the law&quot;.  These are heroes we can relate to, because they aren't these idealist, bland, boy-scout types we see in Phantom Menace.    Also lacking in Phantom menace are a few other key elements that made the original trilogy truly classic:  romance, a scene with suspense every 15 minutes, the characters' reaction to what happens, etc. All we have in Phantom Menace are incredible special effects.  It's not a classic.  It's just a light-show.  If you want plot, intrigue, character, personal conflict, and suspense, see the original trilogy on video, or buy a ticket for The Matrix.  If you've got little kids, take them to see Phantom Menace.  They'll probably like it. but as for those of us who really appreciate good movies, this is a disappointment.  The force was weak with this movie.  Try again, Mr. Lucas."
"Lucky for me I was one of those who waited a few weeks to see this film. I say lucky because by that time most of the Lucasfilm-generated hype had been replaced by public disappointment, negative reviews, and warnings to prepare myself for a cinematic abomination named Jar Jar.  Thus when I went in there I expected a complete garbage movie (still going anyway because I heard the lightsabre fights were worth watching).  And subsequently I was pleasantly surprised.  I'd give it about a 6 out of 10.  Good points:  (1) Great special effects.  Way too heavy on CGI for my tastes (I had the distinct impression throughout the movie I was watching &quot;Antz&quot; or something), but it was impressive eye candy; (2) Lightsabre battle (awesome fight and I liked how they used the Force against each other); and (3) Pod-race - the highlight of the movie in my opinion.  It was long, fast, exciting and awesome to watch.  Bad points (here we go):  (1) Jar Jar.  The wretched idea for this creature should never have been hatched out of whichever storywriter's fevered brain. No amount of warning and preparation will prepare you for how annoying and meaningless this character is.  He literally has no positive value to this movie.  On the contrary, his presence (in almost every scene from the beginning of the movie to the end) grates on your nerves like steel wool. Although I'm sure he was originally intended as comic relief, his clumsy antics aren't the least bit funny; his speech is barely intelligible; his accent and mannerisms are borderline racist (as most who saw the movie can make the connection that Jar Jar is supposed to represent a big dumb Rastafarian); and as a character he is incapable of anything.  At least in the first trilogy the &quot;comic relief&quot; had purpose and skill:  Chewbacca could fly ships and fight, C3PO could translate, Han Solo could do almost everything, etc.  What could Jar Jar do?  Nothing!!!  Even when he was supposed to &quot;guide&quot; them to the Naboo from the Gungan city , he didn't even pilot the sub!  He just sat in the passenger seat and screeched and yelled whenever danger appeared!  Lucas now has a golden chance for redemption - leave Jar Jar out of the next two, please. (2) Sub scene - 15 meaningless minutes of fish trying to eat the sub, but getting eaten in the nick of time by bigger fish.  Doesn't advance the story in any way.  Seems like it was thrown in there for some special effects &quot;oohs&quot; and &quot;ahhs&quot;. (3) Trade Federation and Darth Sidious - For various reasons, the leaders of the Trade Federation keep moaning about how they should never have entered into &quot;the deal&quot; with Darth Sidious.  What deal?  He orders them to do something and they do it!!  They expend resources and place themselves at risk but never seem to benefit any from their actions.  The story never explained how they entered into this agreement with Sidious in the first place and what they were supposed to gain from it. (4) The &quot;treaty&quot; the Queen is supposed to sign - The story never explains how this treaty with the single planet of Naboo is supposed to benefit the Trade Federation.  According to the intro, the Galactic Republic was what levied the taxes on them. How will a treaty with Naboo influence the greater Republic to eliminate the taxes?  Naboo is obviously so insignificant to the Republic that even a planetary invasion is ignored.  Also why even bother with a treaty at all?  You already occupy the planet brainiac!! (5) Jake Lloyd -  bad acting.  &quot;Searching for Bobby Fischer&quot; and &quot;Jack the Bear&quot; had great child actors.  Where did they get this kid from? (6) Anakin leaving his mom - Kid seemed REALLY easy-going for someone who was leaving his only parent (the mother who had raised him all his life) behind to a life a continued slavery.  How many 9 year olds (with loving mothers) do you know can do that and not even get misty eyed?  Oh yeah and &quot;Bye Threepio!&quot; (7) Jedi Council - what a bunch of idiots!  Yoda states that the situation on Naboo is becoming critical.  The Federation Army has invaded, hundreds of people are dying and there is a new threat that needs to be investigated (the Sith).  Who do they send?  The same 2 Jedi who were no match for the situation before and had to flee for their lives!!!  The threat is now greater but the response is the same.  Aren't there supposed to be thousands of Jedi patrolling the galaxy?  You can't pony up a few dozen more to send with them?  Or if there all busy, at least there's a dozen or so lounging around in the Council that can get up and go help out!  Then they have the nerve to show up at Qui Jon's funeral after they sent him to his death... unbelievable. (8) Good guys casualties - for all that blasting in the Gungan battle, and especially in the Palace battle and the space battle hardly any good guys dropped dead!  Hundreds upon hundreds of droids got blown away by these &quot;peaceful-turned-death-ninja-rambo&quot; Naboo Palace Guards, with almost no good guys getting hit.  When you saw the Destroyers roll out to fight in the hanger I thought for sure some Naboo guys would catch it.  But 4 minutes of blazing away later still no one had gotten hit! Same in later scenes in the hallways and in the space battle.  There a dozen or so Naboo fighters take on a swarm of Federation droid fighters and the battleship's laser batteries.  Throughout a 20 minute snarling dogfight you only saw one Naboo fighter get blown up!  And after the battleship gets destroyed you see practically all of them unscathed, congratulating each other and flying home!  And how, when attacking, did they know, of all of the Federation ships in the blockade, which ship was the droid control ship?  There's dozens of them and they all look the same!  And the Federation had jammed communications and sensors earlier in the movie! (9) Jedi/Sith fight scene was great.  Wish it were longer and Darth Maul had survived. (10) Lastly, (and this is a real trivial one I know but...) at the end everyone was gathered pretty close to Qui Jon's funeral pyre.  Now I've never had the misfortune of smelling burning human flesh, but from what I've heard it's extremely unpleasant. Maybe the Force makes you smell like grilled chicken.  Put the bad and the good points together and you get a 6 out of 10.  The booming special effects require you watch it on the big screen.  But the stiff acting, terrible plot, and Jar Jar will make you want to save your next 7 to 9 dollars for something a little more satisfying.  Looking forward to the next two but I sincerely hope Lucas learns from the mistakes of this one."
"I remember first watching this movie when I was in elementary school. And was super hyped to see it when it came out, because just about everyone was hyped to see it. Especially the adults at that time. And when I got to see it in a jam packed theater, I thought it was entertaining enough. And I actually saw it twice in the theater. However watching it now, it isn&#x27;t a super awful movie. But I enjoyed it as a kid, because it will appeal to mostly kids. With the cartoony direction, with hardly any depth or emotion to it. It had very choreographed lightsaber duels and stuff. And also included witless slapstick humor thrown in and even has one of the worst movie character, in movie history... &#x22;Jar-Jar Binks&#x22;. I was blind to all the flaws of this movie when watching it as a kid. But seeing it now...Well it is a very corny movie. And I personally don&#x27;t think George Lucas should work as a director. Sure, he came up with a imaginative space setting and characters with the &#x22;A New Hope&#x22;. And I think he should have just stayed as the idea guy for the premise probably and not do the story and dialogue. Because I think &#x22;A New Hope&#x22; ended up being a fluke. George Lucas seems to have focused on the CGI aspect of the movie more than the actual story. And the CGI for this movie is pretty awful in today&#x27;s standards. And all the main CGI scenes, besides the pod racing scene was awful because of Jar-Jar Binks. I think South Park had an episode about this creature about how annoying it is. The whole movie was just corny and silly. I could talk about everything that is wrong with this movie, but it would take forever. I will just say everything about this movie seemed robotic and I don&#x27;t mean that in a good way. That includes the acting as well. I did however like the backstory when it came to the relationship between Qui-Gon Jinn and Obi-Wan Kenobi. Although there isn&#x27;t much development. And because it introduced Darth Maul, who is this badass villain that just doesn&#x27;t get enough screen time. Oh and lastly I did like the theme song. I kinda feel bad for the kid that played Anakin because of what he had to go through after the few years later this movie was released.  4.5/10"
"The Phantom Menace is a failure on two main things story and characters. The story is so uninteresting and forgettable, and the characters were one noted and you don&#x27;t care about them. you know when i first say this back in 1999, i really like this movie because, for its action and visual. as i got older, it really wasn&#x27;t holding up as i remember it as a kid but, it really is not one of the worst movies I&#x27;ve ever seen.   The plot of the phantom menace is actually i don&#x27;t really want to talk about the plot because, its pretty confusing and i would do a bad job at telling it, i think it&#x27;s about Palpatine creating a crisis on Naboo and things happen that would lead him to be chancellor....i think. even then whatever what plot this movie is, i still don&#x27;t care about it or it&#x27;s not enough for me to care at all.   the characters are really not interesting and i would have taken some characters out and it would not effect the movie at all like take qui gon and the gungans out. also, the acting isn&#x27;t spot on.   the good things i would say is the pod race is pretty cool, the light saber duel at the end is good, and the visuals still looks good but, i would have prefer practical.   overall, it just didn&#x27;t do anything for me and the story should not have started right here, it should start anakin already grown up as a padawan, and so on so forth."
"So I woke up today and decided to write a min-review on the Phantom Menace, almost fifteen years after I first saw it.  Why?   Because it&#x27;s the film that ruined my adult life! And it took me one and a half decades to process all the decrepitude that is the TPM. Fifteen years of therapy to get over the post traumatic stress, the terrible dialog, the awful acting and a certain long-eared &#x22;character&#x22; that I can&#x27;t even name without falling into some kind of horrific relapse.  I will spare you a description of the plot because there isn&#x27;t one, at least not one worth talking about.   In short, TPM is the worst piece of cinematic dreck ever committed to celluloid, digital tape or to a roll of sanitary paper. Even on Ed Wood&#x27;s worst day, he could have come up with something better than than this. And at least it would have starred Bela Lugosi and better acting.   This is not the Star Wars of my youth. Heck, even the infamous Star Wars Holiday Special was better than TPM.  The only thing passably interesting in this mind numbingly awful excuse for a movie was the introduction of a double-sided light saber wielded by some forgettable villain. That&#x27;s it. A double-sided light saber. That&#x27;s what we waited sixteen years for. After sixteen years, George Lucas&#x27; one and only interesting idea was a double-sided light saber. But try as he might, he wasn&#x27;t able to wrap an actual movie around that one good idea.  Okay, I&#x27;m done writing about this movie. I&#x27;m done talking about it. I&#x27;m done thinking about it. After fifteen years, it has finally been expunged from my soul.  I never knew that writing a film review could be so therapeutic. Thank you IMDb user review section. Thank you."
"Before I get into detail, I just want to say that this is one of my least favorite movies ever made. Alright, so this movie takes place before A New Hope, The Empire Strikes Back, and Return of the Jedi - a few of the greatest movies EVER made. You would think that this movie would be good, or even remotely interesting, but it&#x27;s not at all.  The Phantom Menace is about when Liam Neeson and Ewan McGregor go to Tatooine and meet young Anakin Skywalker. Just when you thought the movie couldn&#x27;t get more annoying (with Jar Jar Binks), you meet young Anakin Skywalker, the kid who makes C-3PO just to make the movie relevant to A New Hope, The Empire Strikes Back, and Return of the Jedi. It&#x27;s just very hard to believe that that kid becomes Darth Vader and scores Natalie Portman.  Completely uninteresting, weak plot, dull acting.  But Darth Maul was pretty cool, though."
"I will never watch this film again, I have only seen it twice, once at the cinema way back then, and once recently to check that it really was THAT bad. The only reason I did not give this a score of 1/10 is that i believe no film deserves that as it takes time and effort to make any film.  Ray Park was the best thing about this film, and when the best part only says 3 lines, its got to be bad. the special effects were brilliant for their time, but now are nothing special so don&#x27;t add anything to the (bad) experience of watching it.  Anyone who gave this film more than a 4/10 is a fan-boy (or girl) of epic proportions. I would rather spend a day watching Twilight playing on loop for a day than watch this again. For the manual on how to ruin one of the greatest sagas on film, contact George Lucas. Disney cannot possibly any worse than this!"
"I think everyone I've talked to who've seen this movie was disappointed one way or another. My reaction was &quot;What was that !?&quot;. I couldn't believe that I just saw a movie that had &quot;Star Wars&quot; as part of its title. It was just like another bad sci-fi movie that didn't have any good plot or memorable characters in it. Usage of CGI was unrestrained and got annoying after a while. I felt like saying &quot;Okay, I see that you got lots of money and people to use on computer graphics; stop it already.&quot; and what's worse, they didn't look all that realistic. The magic of the first 3 Star Wars saga was gone on this movie, where visual effects were truly revolutionary, and the concept unquestionably so also. This was just another sci-fi movie. Well, what's wrong with that ? Lucas raised his own bars and couldn't match his earlier efforts despite the massive usage of computers. It makes you think what makes a great movie, if putting unlimited resources on to a project isn't the answer."
"Unlike most of those who have reviewed this film, I have never seen the original Star Wars trilogy from the late 1970s and early 1980s. This has both advantages and disadvantages. On the one hand, I am free from the need to consider whether it was better or worse than the original films. On the other, there was much about it that I found confusing, but which might have been clearer had I seen those films.  The film tries to combine two genres, science fiction and sword-and-sorcery fantasy. These might be thought to be mutually exclusive, as the first is normally set in a high-tech future and the second in an imaginary low-tech past, but here they are brought together by having the action set in a far-away galaxy `a long time ago' and by using scientific technology in much the same way as sorcery is used in more conventional fantasy films. Some low-tech elements, however, survive; in a society that has developed long-distance space travel it seems illogical that some characters' weapon of choice is the `light sabre,' a device that enables them to kill an enemy standing within about two yards of them (an ability that the human race has possessed ever since the first caveman made a spear by tying a sharpened flint to a stick). The light sabre, of course, has nothing to do with logic; it was simply invented to enable the characters to have hand-to-hand duels in the best swashbuckling tradition.  The plot of The Phantom Menace concerns an invasion by the Trade Federation (which sounds like a businessmen's club but is actually an evil empire planning to take over large parts of the galaxy) invades the peaceful planet of Naboo. Queen Amidala, the young ruler of Naboo, escapes, and continues the fight against the Federation with the help of two Jedi Knights (members of an ancient and mystical brotherhood of warriors), Jar Jar Binks (a member of an underwater race who share Naboo with its human inhabitants), and Anakin Skywalker (a young boy rescued from slavery on a desert planet).  The characters in the film are divided into humans and aliens, and the alien ones (Jar Jar Binks in particular) seem to have caused a good deal of adverse comment. Well yes, I did find Jar Jar with his broken English extremely irritating, and wondered why subtitles weren't provided for his scenes. On the other hand, I was almost equally irritated by Yoda (a bat-eared garden gnome who leads the Jedi) and his peculiar inverted sentences. One have thought would that a character who so wise is supposed to be by now of English syntax the rules would have learnt. In fact, none of the alien characters seemed particularly credible; I have seen more convincing aliens in old television programmes such as Doctor Who or Star Trek, which were made on a tiny fraction of the Star Wars budget. The aliens were all supposed to be either kindly or malevolent, but all of them merely seemed risible.  If the alien characters, however, were unconvincing, the human ones were worse. The acting was of a uniformly poor standard, even from actors such as Liam Neeson whom I have admired in other productions. A special mention has to go to Natalie Portman, whose portrayal of Queen Amidala was distinguished by its woodenness and lifelessness. It is hard to believe that she was the girl who was so impressive in Beautiful Girls and Leon. I am not impressed by the explanation that George Lucas deliberately required wooden acting as `homage' to old science-fiction B-movies. That might shift the blame from the actors to the director, but it does not make the film any better. And why pay homage to something that was rubbish in the first place?  There were many things about this movie that I found difficult to understand. It was never convincingly explained what the Trade Federation was, or why it wanted to invade Naboo, or what its relationship was to the other villains in the film, or the role of another, more benevolent, political institution called `The Republic.' The biggest mystery surrounded the semi-religious philosophy of the Jedi, which centred on a mysterious entity called the Force, something else that was never satisfactorily explained. At times the Force seemed to be regarded as a form of psychic energy that could be used for either good or evil purposes; at others, when the Jedi talked about `the will of the Force', it seemed merely to be another name for God. Eventually, the explanation was given that the Force is connected to the presence in the human bloodstream of micro-organisms called `mitichlorians', although the exact nature of the connection remained elusive. If these matters had been explained, this would have been a better film. (And no, it is not good enough to say that I might have understood the film more if I had seen three other films made more than twenty years ago).  Incidentally, I found it difficult to believe in a boy called `Annie'. In addition, greater familiarity with vulgar British slang might have persuaded the scriptwriter that `Obi-Wan Kenobi' was not a very good name for a character. (Say it quickly and you'll know what I mean).  So what is good about this film? Well, the computer-generated special effects are, of course, impressive, but without believable characters or plot that is not enough to make a good film. The result is merely a high-tech version of those old space invader arcade games, full of sound and fury but signifying nothing. 4/10"
"This was a special effects movie about......special effects.  There was no humor, no characters we cared about, no story that wasn't like a zillion other sci-fi stories.   It was another exercise in loud sound, rapid editing and clever special effects.   Mind you, I think this film deserved the Oscars in the three categories THE MATRIX won for (Sound, Visual Effects, Sound Effects) but it still doesn't make it a film I'd want to see again.   Hollywood magic has become so common it's now humdrum.  Sad!"
"This movie had lots of action, but the story and characters were sorry at best. It was very hard to follow, had no emotion, and was anti-climatic. The villain, Darth Maul, said only two words the whole movie, did nothing but fight with his light saber, and when he gets killed it's like &quot;who cares&quot;. I felt like this movie was nothing more than a setup for episode 2 and from the looks of the movie theater, on a Friday night the first weekend it was out was only half full, the word has gotten out. Hype can only carry it so far. I felt cheated. Don't waste your money like I did."
"My first viewing of this movie was like that of many Star Wars fans. I waited in the long lines to see it, I was so excited I was actually about to see a new Star Wars movie. When the iconic opening music filled the theater I could hardly contain my excitement and then the movie started. Almost immediately something felt wrong but I pushed it away, this was Star Wars, it had to be good. I maintained this denial the entire movie, one boring, awkward, bland scene after the next. When the end credits came I was so confused, &#x22;did that just totally suck ass or is it just me&#x22;?   It had been at least 5 or 6 years since I had last seen this movie so I decided it would be a fun Rifftrax viewing and I was right but the movie seems even more awful then I remember it and I remembered it being really bad! It is disturbing to me that this movie has a IMDb score higher than 4.0, people like this movie for reals?"
"&#x22;Star Wars: Episode I - The Phantom Menace&#x22; is a colossal disappointment. It is the fourth (or first, in saga chronology order and according to its title) Star Wars movie and the starting entry of a prequel trilogy fully written and directed by Star Wars creator George Lucas. Now the original trilogy, need I say it, is composed of three of the most original science-fiction movies ever made and two of the best films ever made. That trilogy is over. The prequels&#x27; point is to tell the story of Darth Vader, how he became one of the screen&#x27;s most detestable villains. The whole trilogy is a disappointment, but &#x22;The Phantom Menace&#x22; is the worst of the bunch. Lucas decided to transform the series from a powerful, story-packed narrative to basically a chaste videogamy extravaganza...poorly-written, to add another fault.  &#x22;The Phantom Menace&#x22; traces Anakin Skywalker back to when he was a kid, when he was found by a Jedi master named Qui-Gon (Liam Neeson) and a young Obi-Wan Kenobi (Ewan McGregor) who take it under their wing, after having the kid race against aliens in a pod in one of the movie&#x27;s most pointless scenes, to raise him into a Jedi warrior. Amidst the conflict, there is an intergalactic battle amongst various alien races and humans were bizarre and unsightly makeup designs, and all mixed in with one of the most annoying supporting characters this amateur film critic has ever seen.  There are many things that do not work in this movie. Shall I name a few? The screenplay is awful. Jar-Jar Binks. Characterization is at the level of a cheap video game narrative. Jar-Jar Binks. The CGI special effects are overdone to the point where they look phony. Jar-Jar Binks. The movie is packed with pointless scenes such as that ridiculous and boring pod race I mentioned earlier. Oh, and did I mention Jar-Jar Binks? Jar-Jar Binks is a fully-animated alien addition to the cast, whose animation looks phony, and resembles a cross between a dog, a cobra, and a fish. And whose voice, done by Ahmed Best, with his alternative form of speech (he says &#x22;meesah&#x22; instead of &#x22;me&#x22; or &#x22;I&#x22;) drives even the mentally toughest of us bonkers. The character never shuts up and is so obnoxious and irritating that he brings the already dull movie to a screeching halt whenever he opens his physically big mouth, which is, frequently over the course of the entire picture. He&#x27;s supposed to be a bumbling, Three Stooges-like character who is stupid but makes you laugh, but is stupid and makes you cringe.  Well, Jar-Jar Binks aside, though his inclusion to the cast was the most detrimental mistake in the picture, there are so many other flaws. The special effects are only special in detail, but they are so overdone and so often with CGI that even they begin to lose credibility and persuasiveness. The other trilogy used great effects with imagination. Here, they are just used like objectives in a video game. Yoda is again realized via a puppet controlled by Frank Oz, but this puppet looks less convincing and passable than the original. The dialogue in this picture is just dreadful, also treated like a video game. There&#x27;s a point where Natalie Portman and others are surrounded by bad guys and she tells her comrades to give up and that the bad guys have &#x22;won this round.&#x22; Give me a break. We also have a mincemeat of performances. Liam Neeson is great, as always, but his character is flat. Natalie Portman, a great actress, doesn&#x27;t seem to have much to do but stand around and look pretty, which she does well, but doesn&#x27;t get to show her genuine talent much. And Jake Lloyd (sorry to pick on a young actor) is rather mediocre and annoying as a young Anakin Skywalker, who screams in an irksome manner &#x22;Yippee!&#x22; every time he&#x27;s happy. And there&#x27;s another fault. This movie is supposed to be about the history of Darth Vader. Well, then we should have the feeling that this kid, this boy, will one day become one of the cinema&#x27;s most chilling bad guys. And we don&#x27;t get that feeling. Not once. Need I go back to Jar-Jar Binks? There&#x27;s also a new villain called Darth Maul, who makes me laugh more than he chills me. But one absolutely commendable performance is that by Ewan McGregor as a young Obi-Wan Kenobi. His acting is the only thing that captures magic of the original narrative. McGregor studied the acting style of Alec Guinness to portray this character and he does a stupendous job. He reminds me of a young Alec Guinness and the performances he gave before the original picture.  Instead of capturing the spirit and feeling and power of the original trilogy, &#x22;The Phantom Menace&#x22; and its two followers just reduced the series into a videogamey style with annoying dialogue, poor characterization, and very few fine moments. The other two are better considerably, but this start to a new trilogy is a real disappointment."
"After watching the newly destroyed Star Wars trilogy, I made a list of possible errors within this movie.  )The Phantom Menace...a menace.1.)They didn&#x27;t bother to cut Anakin&#x27;s hair. He looks like a kid who has bad acting and is not Anakin in future films. 2.)Jar Jar was in it. 3.)The Pod Race scene=fun, but way to large of a portion in the movie (took a chunk of the story) 4.)Computer graphics are still cartoony (either should have waited another 10 years, or did this in the late 80s). 5.)Anakin defeats the federation all by himself, giving new viewers the only impression of him being the &#x22;Great Starfighter mentioned in A New Hope and lacking in the other 2 movies. 6.)Jar Jar was in it. 7.)Okay there seems to be an ocean in the pond. Couldn&#x27;t get over there being life in the pond on their way to Jar Jar&#x27;s kingdom of the Dungan. 8.)I still think Lucas was being racist in depicting these aliens as sounding Asian. Asians are aliens? 9.)The astronaut in A New Hope was a Cool eye catcher, Steven Speildberg&#x27;s ET was not. 10.)A great advertising campaign of the pod-racing scene, Computer graphics tend to dazzle the eye for Pepsi consumers. There are some good parts like Obi Wan&#x27;s light saber battle, and the all of the Jedi characters. The acting was suitable for the residents of Naboo but not for Princess Padme, with what seems to be a personality disorder. I give this movie the worst rating out of the three movies. 11.)Darth Maul and Qui Gon were good char. Could have focused on Anakin&#x27;s ability to use the force less and Obis talents more, during the starfighter scene (either that or cut out some of the boys poor dialogue). No longer do i see the planets as submersive planets of one atmosphere but planets divided into culture&#x27;s that discriminate against each other. Democracy in the Star Wars Universe before the cold Empire&#x27;s hand. As told by Obi Wan, he also had a reputation of being a great Jedi starfighter. Maybe he could have blown up the federation."
"Twenty-two years after `Star Wars', George Lucas almost remade it with `The Phantom Menace': an invasion, a royal female in distress, two rescuing heroes, training of a young recruit, funny puppets, war scenes and a final prize-winning ceremony, with the added attraction of a sequence where Lucas' fascination with car races is evident. A too schematic and fragmented belligerent fable, a science-fiction tale with its feet sunk in the prosaic troubles of post-capitalism, this pre-sequel of the saga had the advantage of counting with two generations of fanatics, with trade-mark atmosphere, situations and characters, with a consolidated popular tradition, and the always efficient special effects machinery. Nevertheless, under the light of the school created by the 1977 film, this fourth part had all the look of one more from the bunch it originated."
"As a big Starwars fan i cant help feel disappointed with this installment of the StarWars prequel., It lacks emotion character development and serious acting, although the script had something to do with that. Too comical for a Starwars film even if it was intended to kids. Apart from this and Jar Jar, and whats the deal with Boss Nass and his slobbering. Visual were stunning. The Saber duels at times were filmed too close. Altogether one Big Opppps!!"
"When it was announced that three new Star Wars movies were to be made the world was absolutely thrilled. The queue to the box office stretched beyond the horizon. It had been 16 years since a Star Wars movie played in the theaters and expectations were through the roof. But when watching the original Star Wars trilogy, did we ever wonder that much about the history of the world in that galaxy far, far away? Were we really that interested in how Anakin Skywalker became Darth Vader, and was it really that important to know all the details about the Jedi knights&#x27; engagements decades earlier?  &#x22;Star Wars: Episode 1 - The Phantom Menace&#x22; revolves around the two jedis Qui-Gon Jinn and Obi-Wan Kenobi, who through an unfortunate and improbable series of events find themselves stranded on the planet Tatooine along with some other people, where they for the first time meet the boy Anakin Skywalker. There&#x27;s also the questionable story of the Trade Federation blockade of the planet Naboo which involves the evil Darth Sidious, who for some reason sends the almost as evil Darth Maul to assassinate queen Amidala of Naboo. I&#x27;m trying here to point out this movie&#x27;s main problem. People&#x27;s intentions and motives are often unclear and they don&#x27;t get explained very well either. Events and circumstances that push the story forward seem implausible and highly unlikely most of the time. The story isn&#x27;t dependent on the characters&#x27; accomplishments or their ability to solve problems, but merely on chance, which makes their qualities and personal traits unimportant, not that they were given any to begin with. Events seem to be detached ideas forced together to make out a coherent story line, and when the movie has ended it&#x27;s actually quite difficult to account for what happened in it.  Much of the feel and atmosphere of the original Star Wars trilogy comes from the fact that we don&#x27;t know exactly what happened in the past. Obi- Wan mentions something about the clone wars and Luke&#x27;s father being a jedi knight, and that&#x27;s it. That small glimpse of history is what creates all the mystique and excitement we need. Luke&#x27;s story is that of a forgotten legacy. &#x22;The Phantom Menace&#x22; is the first step out of three to take away a little of that great feel and atmosphere of the original movies, and for that I am a bit angry. Nowadays I have to disregard the new movies to be able to watch the old ones the way they deserve to be watched. Also, in &#x22;The Phantom Menace&#x22; the mystique and excitement is replaced by a bland feeling, and the story of the forgotten legacy turns out to be completely uninteresting, which some of us already had suspected. What&#x27;s the point in telling a story that everyone knows the outcome of, anyway? (Yeah, the guy gets corrupted by the dark side and eventually starts to dress in black, wear a helmet-mask-thing and breathe funny. We don&#x27;t really care HOW or WHY because it&#x27;s not important!) The story in Episode 1 is also told in a very bleak manner which makes me care even less than I first did. The characters lack depth, it&#x27;s hard to understand why they say what they say, and why they do what they do. Things are illogical and people are irrational. The only thing that prevents this movie from being a complete catastrophe is the performance and credibility of Ewan McGregor, but unfortunately the history of Obi-Wan Kenobi isn&#x27;t especially interesting either.  I had high hopes for the special effects in this one, but to me it seems that the special effects company Industrial Light and Magic (ILM) has gone from being absolute pioneers in creating unbelievable, yet extremely good looking and realistic effects on the screen, to just being lazy guys behind a computer. The reason I&#x27;m saying this is because it appears ILM is under the impression that they can computer-animate anything and make it look real. I&#x27;m sorry to say that that is far from the truth. CGI-shots are easy to spot, and a lot of it in this movie just doesn&#x27;t look good, sometimes even cartoonish. I expected more. The sound quality and sound design, however, was great.  I also keep wondering what the target audience is. The slapstick humor delivered by Jar Jar Binks and the not-so-funny jokes presented by Anakin and his kid friends annoy the hell out of an adult audience, but the tactics and politics talk is way too boring and complex (and in this case, illogical) for a child to endure. Maybe the script is written by someone who has the reasoning of a child, is under the impression that he understands politics and warfare strategies but actually hasn&#x27;t got a clue, and who doesn&#x27;t know how to make an appealing movie for the intended audience. (I know George Lucas wrote it.)"
"&#x22;A special effect without a story is pretty boring thing&#x22;. George Lucas said that. Something happened to Lucas sometime between 1977 and 1999. (I personally think it was soon after 1977.) Absolute power corrupts absolutely.  Anyway, this movie is a special effect without a story. Sadly, this is also the best thing about the movie. The costumes and make-up are pretty interesting, not much else positive can really be said.  And why do people use computer graphics? They look horrible. When effects in movies from decades prior look more convincing something has clearly gone wrong.  There is no way that this film deserves a rating as high as a six on IMDb."
"The original trilogy was the attempt to give us the backstory of how Darth Vader became Darth Vader, but at the end of the day, you kind of don&#x27;t care.   So you have this convoluted plot where Darth Sideous/Senator Palpatine/the future Emperor is attempting to manipulate a trade dispute so he can become Chancellor. The Jedis are involved, somehow, as guardians of peace, but they don&#x27;t actually do anything and apparently this Republic exists without any kind of real military force to enforce their will, so planets can go to war with each other and there isn&#x27;t squat anyone can do about it, really.   Okay, here&#x27;s the problem. Who cares? The plot seems to be a series of excuses to hang special effects sequences on. In many ways, Star Wars has been hoist on its own petard. The damage it did was that it put special effects above writing and character development, merchandising above storytelling, but now everyone is doing that, so what&#x27;s all that special?   Oh, yeah, and Jar-Jar Binks.   A problem I think is that everyone bemoans the fall of the REpublic, but no one seems to care one way or the other. One side uses mindless drones and the other side uses mindless clones... so who honestly cares?"
"OK, so &quot;Star Wars: Episode I - The Phantom Menace&quot; was a big letdown for us all. Apparently, most people even understood the plot when it came out. It wasn't until I listened to &quot;Weird&quot; Al Yankovic's song &quot;The Saga Begins&quot; - the &quot;American Pie&quot; spoof - on his album &quot;Running with Scissors&quot; that I understood the plot.  But overall, it seems that if this happens before the original trilogy, then the technology should be less sophisticated, not more. Oh well. C'est la vie. It was interesting seeing people like Liam Neeson, Samuel L. Jackson, and Christopher Lee co-starring in a movie after all these years. This may sound weird to everyone, but my favorite character was Jar Jar Binks; why did everyone think that he sounded Jamaican? I thought that he sounded Cajun.  So that's my take on everything here."
"I am sure George Lucas is smug as bug, I think he wanted to completely distort and rearrange the Star Wars universe just because he thinks it is his to do as he pleases, he knew that 20 years  of people waiting for the new movies would guarantee it making a billion dollars, even if it sucked.  Does anyone remember watching the first Star Wars, and seeing the Stormtroopers ruthlessly board the blockade runner and waste the rebel scum, not a hint of mercy, only following their orders.  The ships and weapons and equipment were realistic for a sci fi movie. It all seemed to fit together to give the perception of an entire universe of history, culture, politics, agriculture, space travel, trade, greed, crime, law enforcement, bounty hunters etc.  You really felt for Luke being a bored farmer, he had adventurers blood in his veins, no liberal anti jedi uncle could remove it from his mind.  Darth Vader was a cool, dark, menacing villain. He had complete command of his minions around him, a true commander in the field for the emperor. Darth Vader was a follower of the dark side of the force, which may or may not be evil. The empire did seem to control law and order, the economy seemed to be functioning, the military obviously was being funded very well. Civilians in the outlying areas seemed to have the right to own weapons which is more then most earth people can say, the Storm Troopers were made out to be regular joes in some scenes where they are talking about family and such.  The empire failed to win over the hearts and minds of all people by adopting a join us or die mentallity. But that was their strategy.  I won't comment on the next 2 other than to say I did not like the ewoks much, the idea of killing a Storm Trooper as an ewok with a flimsy miniature wooden bow and small stones is absolutely insane. You would think an empire that is ruthless enough to destroy Alderaan would clean out any indigenous teddy bears that could be a threat. As ineffective as Imperial troops were I don't see how they could conquer anything, why is it an armored storm trooper can't take any hits from sporting blasters yet Leia can survive a blast from a military blaster with no armor on.  As bad as I thought return of the jedi was, the phantom menace was far worse. I found almost none of the &quot;Good guy&quot; characters likeable. The anakin slave plot line was real retarded, nobody wants to see a cool evil villain like Vader be reduced to a sniveling, crying slave. The race scene was just filler to make the movie 2 hours and sell some more toys, the fact that anakin won when he was way behind is totally ludicrous.  I don't like the way the evil droids don't follow their orders, the senator ordered them to anihilate the opposition, he didn't say anything about taking prisoners, especially taking all the pilots and just leaving them next to their fueled and armed bottle rockets er I mean fighters. The civil war like ground battle was really stupid, why these trade federation dudes don't they have orbital bombardment methods of attack, use the droids to mop up.  I think Yoda was a little out of place being on Corascunt (spell?) , I am still trying to picture in my mind him having a light saber duel with an opponent. And since when did the light and dark side of the force (which grand moff Tarkin referred to as a religion) which makes for a spiritual presence that can hop star systems and visit luke have to do with organisms that crawl on your skin and on all matter you command to make metal objects float and do your bidding. That metachlorians crap was the biggest travesty to come out of lucases mind yet. It made me wonder what his motives were, was he afraid having a religion in his fantasy world would upset someone.  And to cap the movie off the honorable jedi double team Darth Maul, what kind of honorable duel was that.  I rate Star Wars 10, Empire 9.5, Return of Jedi 5, Menace 2.5 (Darth Maul is all of those points). I don't expect my comments to matter, just thought I would share them."
"When I saw this movie at the theater I initially enjoyed it. I got swept up by the crowd and the light saber battles. Then I saw this movie again and it lost a lot of luster really fast. Now when you watch it, the film is very bland and not very entertaining at all. Other than a somewhat exciting opening scene and a very nice saber battle with the very pointless, but still cool in a way Darth Maul this movie is just a bunch of plot points that will quickly run its course and really has no impact beyond introducing a young Anakin to Obi Wan. The plot has some forces invading this planet we never heard of in the original series. This planet has a rather dumb looking princess and a very annoying race of amphibious creatures that as soon as I saw it I knew it would be the most annoying thing in the film. That is until they meet young Anakin Skywalker so I do believe we had a tie. The rest of the film is just pointless filler getting us to the somewhat enjoyable ending, well about one fourth of it was enjoyable anyway (the saber duel). In the meantime you have a pointless race where you just knew young Anakin was going to win, stupid cameos that make no sense (come on, Anakin making C-3PO, really?), and very bland leads in Liam Neeson as a guy who never existed in the original saga and Ewan as a even more impressively bland Kenobi. Yes, the acting is about as good as watching people in front of blue screens as everyone has no reaction to what they are supposed to be seeing. All this and it culminates with a battle with the creatures that are annoying and robots (I wish the robots won that one), a stupid action scene for the princess (basically an anything a guy can do a little girl can do too set of scenes), an annoying Anakin piloting a ship against the underdeveloped enemy, and one of the few things worth seeing a duel between the Jedi&#x27;s and Darth Maul. Kind of a shame a movie this bad made as much as it did, but you put light sabers in a movie and name it Star Wars and it would probably easily make 100 million."
"Well what can I say? The greatest movie saga of all time completely ruined!!! Thats right Mr. Lucas, RUINED!!!! I tend to think as 4, 5 and 6 as completely different films, separate from this crap.  My Girlfriend at the time stayed up all night to book us tickets to the local cinema to see the first showing. Bless her, she managed to get some! Even though I was 19 I couldn&#x27;t hold my excitement and was looking forward to it like child on Christms Eve! I came out of the cinema and didn&#x27;t say anything for a good hour. What a shambles. Story was rubbish, acting was terrible and the whole film pathetic! I had to go and drink myself into a stupier just to forget about it.  Don&#x27;t bother, go and watch the first 3!"
"The Phantom Menace is a sci-fi comedy spoof based on the Mel Brooks classic &#x27;Spaceballs&#x27;. Many people (wrongly) thought that it was part of a prequel trilogy to the Star Wars movies, in which George Lucas had (allegedly) been involved in making many years ago, but anyone expecting a film like that would only be disappointed. The film isn&#x27;t as serious as Spaceballs and it&#x27;s also worth noting that the effects aren&#x27;t as impressive, particularly the cartoon-style CGI, but this isn&#x27;t a problem due to the comedic nature of the film; decent special effects would only have detracted from the gags and OTT acting. The movie pokes fun at the nonsensical storyline of Spaceballs by itself making very little sense at all, throwing in some humorous subplots about taxes and trade embargos for good measure.  The film was so successful that George managed to once again line his pockets by licensing merchandise based on the film, which is pretty funny when you consider the scene in Spaceballs where they look at Yogurt&#x27;s cave; this brilliant sense of irony is just one of the many things that proves George to be a very clever man indeed. He must&#x27;ve had a lot of fun making this film and it shows, as there&#x27;s almost nothing here which you could take even remotely seriously. This is probably my favourite comedy movie from that year, although the sequels weren&#x27;t quite as good (apart from the &#x27;noooooo!&#x27; scene in the final film, which is possibly the funniest thing to feature in a film, EVER).  Having read a lot of the reviews on IMDb, it disappoints me that so many people misunderstood what George was trying to achieve. Of course as a serious sci-fi movie this doesn&#x27;t work, but the film was never supposed to have any artistic merit. So sit back and enjoy the brilliant film that George has made, and may the midi-chlorians be with you!"
"George Lucas failed at every point of film making with this movie. This movie has no narrative coherence, or foundations. The basic foundations for a movie are simply not present here, there is no main character, no interesting characters and most of all, an incoherent plot. If you actually try to pay attention to anything said in this movie you will notice that it makes absolutely makes no sense at all. Every sentence of dialog contradicts what was said before it and for a movie which is made for kids, it is seriously boring. George Lucas seems to think that special effects are more important than plot and characters and while the special effects may look good, they drain all the life out of the movie. He tries to make locations which look vast and open but the actors are obviously on a very narrow platform. This whole movie seems to be about cramming as much crap on the screen as possible. George Lucas, please, please stop re-releasing this crap."
"To quote William Hurt from David Cronenburg&#x27;s &#x22;A History of Violence&#x22; - &#x22;How do you F# that Up?&#x22; Well, George Lucas? HOW DO YOU F# THAT UP? I just watched Harry Plinkett&#x27;s step by step comprehensive video reviews of Eps 1-III. I&#x27;ve always known everything that Mr. Plinkett says, but there was never anyone who figured it out like he had.  When it comes down to it, they were MAKING SETS even before George Lucas had any story at all. It is like Lucas wanted to AD LIB these films. I realise that he wanted to tell the tale of how Ralph Nadir Skywalker became Darth Vader, but in doing so, he did EVERYTHING the movie companies wanted to do to him when he made Star Wars. Everything Wrong that is.  So, where Episode IV or, as I call it, &#x22;Star Wars&#x22; was a stroke of genius directing, writing, storytelling - Art that came from ADVERSITY... Episode I was the movie that Star Wars would have been had the studios gotten their way in 1977.  Now, unless you are less than 3 years old, this movie is NOT for you. If you like lots and lots of space ships, explosions, robots, gadgets, aliens, all saying nothing and doing nothing, then go for it.  If you watch the original - UN-SPECIAL-EDITIONED Star Wars, there are NO scenes where people are sitting on couches talking about their problems, being filmed from only 2 cameras.  Literally, these films go from BORING to TOO BUSY within seconds.  I admit, I needed help from Harry Plinkett to understand what a travesty these moovies are: If you don&#x27;t believe me, go to RedLetterMedia and check it out!  As much as I rate &#x22;Star Wars Epidose I&#x22; a 1, I rate Mr. Plinkett&#x27;s Review a 10. It took lot of guts to put Lucas on the Chopping Block.  Lucas needs to get back, somehow to his roots. He EATS too much. That&#x27;s his problem, let him trade places with me, for a year: And then I&#x27;ll guarantee you he can make a movie of quality.  Like he used to be able to do: American Graffitti and even his student film, THX-1138. They are not super high quality social statements like Cronenburg&#x27;s A History of Violence, but they are good, pleasing, interesting moovies. But then Lucas made Star Wars on almost NO money.  If Episode I had been limited to a budget of say, 25 Milion bucks. The QUALITY may have been as good as his first SW moovie.  But instead, instead of solving problems caused by too much Hi Tech CGI crap, he kept shoving more and more munny into making scene after scene of nonsensical, non-interesting Kack.  Well... Lucas made Three Original SW Moovies that I loved. hey that&#x27;s good for a lifetime of work, he don&#x27;t need to DO any more.  George Luke-A$$: Please STOP Making Moovies!"
"but it wasn&#x27;t George Lucas made 3 of the best films ever made, he created a believable universe that everyone could almost imagine being a part of, or at least wanting to be.  He helped created the coolest weapon ever known to man, the light-saber.  So i ask you reader, was it possible for George to ruin his reputation, his legacy and his franchise in one single movie? answer- no, it took 3 really bad films- (or pre-quels- he&#x27;s so smart isn&#x27;t he) to ruin his reputation, episode one just happens to be the worst of the 3 and also the worst film ever made."
"After the phenomenal success of the &#x22;Star Wars&#x22; trilogy, one can&#x27;t blame Lucas for going for more gold, but after 16 years this is what he came up with? This horrible film has a collection of weird and annoying characters engaged in tedious, mindless action. There is no rhyme or rhythm to the proceedings. The dialog is laughably bad. What&#x27;s with the goofy dialect for Jar Jar and why does this doofus get so much screen time? Lucas fails miserably not only with his embarrassing script, but also with his inept direction. He is a special effects wizard and seems to be clueless about storytelling and acting. Why does he have Portman deliver her lines like a robot? A major disappointment."
"Episode 1 is the weakest of the 6, but Darth Maul and the Pod Race are great! I still feel that this movie is way too underrated. What irritates me is the 3D! I took my friend to see it &#x27;cause he never saw 3D. He didn&#x27;t really notice anything, and I hate it more! I read why Roger Ebert hates 3D. I moved the 3D glasses off repeatedly and noticed that the 3D makes the overall image so congested and gloomy! I love the theater experience and I tried to give 3D many chances, but I think there is no hope for it! I was impressed for about 14 seconds and irritated for about 2 hours! And all those Lucas changes that he ever did won&#x27;t add up to the 2 hour congested gloom of 3D!! I&#x27;m done with it! Its all about money! Higher ticket prices! Even this hated movie made over 20 mill over the weekend, too bad 3D wont go away! I like the movie and hate the 3D. I think 3D is the worse thing than all of the changes that Lucas could ever do to the films!Drag me by gunpoint and I&#x27;ll go to the other films!"
"For goodness sake, don&#39;t watch this film. It is awful, the dialogue is terrible, the plot is non-existent, the acting incredibly wooden, the CGI (despite clearly having spent a lot of money on it) is rubbish.. I can&#39;t believe anyone on here gave this film a decent rating!   And of course there&#39;s the underlying racism, the evil oriental souding aliens, the very dodgy &#39;yessum&#39; jar-jar binks Jamaican sounding character.. the only good thing in this is the light saber fight near the end, but that comes nowhere near salvaging this utter crock.  Easily the worse film I&#39;ve ever seen. And I&#39;ve seen some real crap! George Lucas should be tried for crimes against culture for daring to make such a mind-blowingly awful film."
"(Possible Spoiler)  I&#x27;m not a die-hard STAR WARS fan by any means, yet I recognize the original 1977 adventure as a very good throwback to the old time adventure serials, on which it was based. As of this writing I&#x27;m eager to familiarize myself with these movies in preparation for the newly released REVENGE OF THE SITH. I wanted to at least rent THE PHANTOM MENACE and ATTACK OF THE CLONES to get some sort of perspective.  I actually saw PHANTOM MENACE upon its release in 1999; it wasn&#x27;t very good to me then and I&#x27;m sorry to say that my home viewing of it for the second time last night appealed to me even less. I don&#x27;t feel too clueless, as I&#x27;m aware that even many STAR WARS devotees also were disappointed with this one. It&#x27;s just a chaotic mess, not very decipherable, and far too juvenile. To make matters even less bearable, some of the performers were poorly chosen. Chief on the list is little inexperienced Jake Lloyd, who is completely non-convincing as the one who&#x27;d become Darth Vader, as we all know. He doesn&#x27;t come across as the &#x22;wiz kid&#x22; or &#x22;potentially dangerous&#x22; presence we keep hearing about from Liam Neeson&#x27;s character. Lucas should have gone with the talented Haley Joel Osment (THE SIXTH SENSE)... he really could have pulled this part off. Natalie Portman is absolutely horrid as she plays the disinterested queen who slips in and out of her noble delivery, depending on whether or not she&#x27;s in her makeup at any given moment. Only Denise Richards could have been less effective (maybe).  The CGI effects are way too much, and often times I felt like I was watching an old Looney Toons comedy; hordes of silly-looking creatures, making funnies and acting all stupid. Which leads us to the irritating Jar-Jar Binks -- it was a disaster having this annoying character in the film. A good (I mean, bad) example of where these cartoony creatures really overstayed their welcome was during the popular &#x22;pod race,&#x22; which was more mind-numbing than exciting. I couldn&#x27;t make heads or tails out of it, and I couldn&#x27;t wait until it ended.  Thank heavens for Liam Neeson and Ewan McGregor. On the plus side (and the only real thing this chapter has going for it), Neeson is magnificent in his role as the Jedi Master who has taught young Obi-Wan (another fine performance from McGregor) the ways of the Jedi. They make a perfect team, and it&#x27;s a shame they were wasted in this muddled mess of a movie. I should mention that I thought Darth Maul made for a pretty good villain, but he was sadly under-used. Oh, yes - and the whole thing felt (surprise!) about 45 minutes too long. Oh well. Every series is entitled to have its turkey. Now I move on to EPISODE II... * out of ****"
"I recently saw this film on video, the first time I'd sat through it since last Summer. I was amazed to find it was even worse than I had originally thought. The lack of a plot of any description is a serious problem, but only one among many. The script seems to have been fine-tooth-combed to remove any sense of identity or individuality on the part of the characters, giving the performances the air of those in a school play scripted by a 12 year old. Let's not even bother with the fact that the effects are abysmal and the enemy storm troopers have the prescence and menace of a glove puppet.  But worst of all; how could Lucas possibly have been happy with the performance of Jake Lloyd, and the excrutiating scenes where he is talking with children his own age before the pod race?  I defy any adult who cares about film to enjoy this appalling tosh."
"Star Wars Episode I: The Phantom Menace is a movie I&#x27;m apprehensive to review, perhaps more than any other film ever. I only review movies if I feel I have something to interesting and unique to say. What unique view point to do I have to give to the Star Wars prequels, possibly the three most heavily critiqued films ever. I decided to watch all three prequels again (and hopefully for the last time) in order to get a fresh perspective on them, and I believe I may have some unique points of view to offer; plus I am among the populace who is addicted to discussing every aspect of George Lucas&#x27; pop culture behemoth.  Don&#x27;t be too surprised when I tell you I hate the prequels, big shocker right? However The Phantom Menace is the prequel I dislike the least. The major aspect I find The Phantom Menace does has going for it over the other two prequels are the aesthetics; it comes the closet to resembling the original trilogy (if still incredibly far off). The Phantom Menace was shot on film and does feature on location filming and even some practical effects here and there, so the whole thing doesn&#x27;t come of looking like a video game as Episodes II and III did. There is a lot of eye candy to behold, such as the locations such as the Palace of Caserta in Italy (why do you want to film everything on a green screen when beautiful places like this exist in the world?), while the costume design (not something I would normally comment on) is very pleasing to the eyes. The only two scenes in The Phantom Menace which has a little bit of that excitement that I get watching the original trilogy are the pod race and final lightsaber duel between Obi-Wan, Qui-Gon and Darth Maul; an impressive display of acrobatics and is it&#x27;s not choreographed within an inch of its life like the duels in Episodes II and III. But even these few aspects of the film I do enjoy are ultimately superficial as there is no internal conflict nor am I emotional invested.  What surprised me watching The Phantom Menace for the first time in a decade was just how incredibly frustrated I got. I&#x27;ve seen and read more reviews of this film over the years, analysing it to death and mocking every aspect of it; so watching the film again I expected to have a reactions of &#x22;yeah it sucks, what else is new&#x22;. But sitting down and watching the entire thing my brain became so numb from the never ending monotone exposition. I&#x27;m not even that keen on the John Williams score; it&#x27;s not bad by any means, far from it, but it feels too dark and moody for a Star Wars movie. As fine a piece of music as Duel of the Fates is, those booming choirs feel out of place for Star Wars. In regards to the most hated fictional character of all time, I don&#x27;t think Jar Jar is the absolute worst thing ever, I can at least tolerate him (if there&#x27;s any character in the prequel trilogy who bothers me for who ridiculous they are its General Grievous). Plus at least he&#x27;s responsible for the only line from this film I like; &#x22;The ability to talk does not you intelligent&#x22;.  All three prequels lack the space western elements of the original trilogy, and I recall a comment that George Lucas intended The Phantom Menace to play out like a costume drama. Perhaps it&#x27;s own such a direction could have worked if you know, the execution wasn&#x27;t total pants. I can see what Lucas was perhaps going for in the story in trying to portray the fall of a democracy; the idea of radicals using political unrest as a means of coming to power, such as the Nazis using the turmoil caused by the great depression to amass power. Perhaps the empire isn&#x27;t such a bad thing, it appears under their command the universe became a more interesting place.  As someone who is interested in the relationship people have with popular culture, I find the most interesting aspect of The Phantom Menace is nothing in the film itself but rather its place in history. Think about it, the most anticipated movie of all time and it was a colossal let down, and this occurring during the early days of the internet. What would the world of geekdom be like if The Phantom Menace actually lived up to expectations? Would an entire generation be less cynical? Would internet culture be the same as it is today, possibly for the better?"
"I'm just posting to see how many stars IMDb says I gave it. I gave it 1 star. Really, it deserved at least 3, but I read many reviews that basically said, &quot;Come on, it wasn't ALL terrible&quot; and gave it 8 to 10 stars. Come on, kids. Does your dial go to 11? Also, I noticed that whenever people gave it a rating within their review, the number of stars shown before their review was different - sometimes lower, but usually higher.  I knew this movie would suck when I saw the previews, because they had nothing but CGI scenes, with no dialogue. That told me where Lucas' mind was, and that tells you everything you need to know about this movie."
"I loved the first three movies, and thought that they were the best trilogy ever made. I was a bit worried about checking this movie out, because of all the bad reviews it got. When I first saw this movie I didn't like it as much as the other three, and I only watched this one a few times. After seeing the amazing Revenge of the Sith, I decided to give this movie another look at. And my opinion changed. I now understand what everything is about in this movie. The plot makes more sense, and I was actually entertained by this movie. There is still the bad acting by Jake Lloyd, the annoying Jar Jar Binks, and the horrible script by George Lucas. This is till not as good as the first three movies, but it's still good now that I understand what everythings about."
"OK, first of all, I realize this movie has been out for several years but frankly, it's taken me this long to cool down and write a review - hell, I just need to get some things off my chest!  Soooooooooo awful!!!! This movie is an abomination when compared with the original trilogy. (Yeah, I'm one of those thirty-something purists!! &gt;:) The writing was horrible, the dialogue was unbelievably cheesy, and the plot was just plain dumb. I saw the film on opening night and I swear, I actually FELL ASLEEP during the second half of the film. I keep trying to finish watching the damned thing (my husband went out and bought the DVD behind my back..lol), but I just can't seem to stomach this crud for more than a few minutes.  For instance, Liam Neeson's portrayal of Qui-Gon Jinn just paled in comparison to Alec Guiness' Obi-Wan Kenobi, and I'm normally a big Liam Neeson fan. But then, that was one of the film's biggest problems: the unspeakably lame script. For example, all during the film, Neeson's Qui-Gon (and Ewan MacGregor's ObiWan, for that matter) kept spouting off &quot;May the Force be with you&quot; the way someone would say &quot;Have a nice day&quot; - totally shallow and unbelievable as a devout Jedi knight. Alec Guiness' Ben Kenobi, on the other hand, brought a depth and sincerity to the character that hasn't been replicated anywhere in Episode One.  And do you remember that scene when Anakin is leaving his mother's house and asks if he'll ever see her again? Her response was to &quot;look at what your heart tells you.&quot; Um, OK, not bad for some half-baked after-school special, but then compare that scene with one of the more sentimental scenes from the original Star Wars (Episode Four) and you see how trite it really is: remember the part of Episode 4 when Luke's Uncle Owen forces him to postpone his application to the academy and an angry Luke stalks off from the house to stare longingly at the horizon? There is absolutely no dialogue, just music, but you can see all the emotion of Luke's impatience, frustration, and disappointment in his face without him ever uttering a word.  As for Natalie Portman's character...how many costume changes did this chick go through? And she still never fought off stormtroopers and underwater garbage-compacter creatures like Carrie Fisher's Princess Leia!  OK, I realize I could go on (I won't even start on Jar-Jar Binks, but in all fairness, ROTJ did have ewoks...), but the point is: the movies in the original trilogy, especially Episode Four, were great because of their simplicity. The films were the archetypal Hero's Journey, set to a sci-fi background, nothing more. But their simplicity is exactly the reason they were so successful. The didn't NEED all the artificial, computer-generated crap to be good."
"I have to say that I wasn't expecting much when I decided to watch this movie. I am no fan of the first Star Wars-movies (although they are by no means bad films) and I'd heard that The Phantom Menace wasn't close to being as good as them. The Phantom Menace is certainly not better than any of the first Star Wars-movies, but it is only marginally worse. I found it to be quite entertaining and I didn't find the loathed Jar Jar Binks as annoying as most people seem to find him. However, the movie was boring at times and the script isn't very exciting. Still, it's not a failure, if you ask me. (5/10"
"I'd just like to say one thing - the kid Jake Lloyd that plays Anakin is simply a horrible actor.  He was so bad that it was painful and detracted from the film.  I know he's young, but I have seen dozens of performances by young actors that were excellent.  Every line he said made me wince."
"I saw the Phantom Menace, it was good until I saw Star Trek first contact. It was the greatest sci-fi movie, or one of the greatest sci-fi movies ever made! All my friends, even Star Wars freaks agree that Star Trek makes their movie graphics much better.  What I hate about Phantom Menace is: 1) The entire movie only uses the same weapons, the lasers used from everything, the droids, fighters etc. The proton torpedoes which are only shot once or twice in each movie. 2) Only fighters are used, why can't they use starships. 3) There are only two Jedi Knights, they wear old rags in a futuristic movie, I'm positive they can think of something else. They use light sabres, in a futuristic movie, hand to hand weapons for war are not supposed to be used unless they are going to assasinate someone or that's the only thing left, they should use those blaster guns, more types of weapons would be better. 4) The music in the beggining makes me laugh, makes the movie less serious in the serious parts. 5) Absoloutely no story and no sitiuations. The story line is all explained in the beginning. No situations, like they should have something like a shockwave is going to come and blow us apart, meanwhile a droid fighter fleet is approaching, or their is a new race that is going to blast the empire and rebellion and they have to team up to destroy them and at the end they fight against each other. I'd like to thank IMDb for allowing me to have a chance to comment, and everyone who reads this comment."
Mind the array of audiences and focus on the the picture itself and you'll find Lucas at a phase of losing his touch.  He was great with the prior.  He introduced new innovative technique and style.  This hardly brought anything eye catching.  Our expectations were too high and most people have obsessions with StarWars including I that make it the hype that it is.  Why Samuel L. Jackson ?
"The effects were great, but the acting was wooden and the plot was way too serious.  I was bored out of my mind through most of it.  And I love the old Star Wars movies.  The fun seems to be gone.  No Chewie and the droids reduced to cameos made it even harder for me to enjoy."
"This, more than the others Star Wars films, most resembles the old sci-fi serials it was based on.  There are a bunch of nice little action scenes, few of which appear to affect the long term plot.  It did not have the magic of the original series, but was always interesting to look at.  It appears that, Lucas had most of his ideas set for Episodes 2&amp;3, and degenerated this script into a not too exciting, spiritualy deprived thrill ride.  I hope it works for some people.  Honestly, I thought episode one was the instalment that was supposed to throw the whole story into motion.  It doesn't really accomplish that goal.  This feels like it could've been an Episode 2,3,4,5,6, but not an opening.  Though I enjoyed this, I seriously doubt the film will be remembered as the others are.  But, maybe after 16 years, mister Lucas needs time to warm up.  Here's hoping for Episode 2!!"
"Oh, WOW!!!  Where do I start?  The moment was finally here.  The opening credits rolled - we were all screaming with delight.  I was nearly in tears. Amazing!  To think I was actually seeing a new Star Wars movie!  My reactions to the movie are nearly all good.  It was interesting how the Jedi were portrayed.  From the original trilogy, we knew that they were once an important part of the galaxy, but we never really knew how.  Now we get to see how they used to be, to see what they were before they were destroyed by Darth Vader.  Let's examine the characters.  First, Liam Neeson as Qui-Gon Jinn.  He was absolutely fantastic!!  I knew he would be.  I've always admired his acting ability.  I have no complaints at all about him. WOW!  His death scene was good, VERY good.  I was sobbing all the way through the end credits.  Both he and Ewan McGregor did a stupendous job. I had my doubts about Ewan as I went in, I had none as I left.  His character was a little underdeveloped, but I say that because I know what his character becomes in Episodes IV-VI.  That's the problem with already knowing the end of a story.  His character should be developed much more fully in the next two.  He did an excellent job of showing his grief for a dying friend who had really been a father to him.  Oh, and let's not forget that these two men had nice accents. :)  JarJar.  What can I say about him?  People I talked to had portrayed him as so utterly despicable that he was beyond all hope of liking.  I didn't have a very good opinion of him from the trailers either.  He turned out to be less annoying than I had anticipated, though.  Still, I think far too much focus was given to him.  At times, I felt like his dialogue was inappropriate to the scene, and was just added because they wanted him to be noticed.  I feel like, unfortunately, George has resorted to some shallow humor regarding this character.  Why must he be a bumbling, clumsy fellow? It's almost a cliche.  It was too much.  Anakin was somewhat of a disappointment, mostly because I had expected him to be different.  That is the problem with excessive hype about movies - we get our preconceived ideas about characters, plot points, etc., and when the movie is different we don't like it.  He was a very believable child, but at the same time I didn't think he carried the seriousness and maturity that a child slave would have.  Of course, this could be attributed to the scriptwriters.  His outbursts of &quot;Yippee!&quot; bothered me because I wanted him to be different, but if I ignore my preconceived ideas, he did a pretty good job.  Plus, he's a cute kid!  I'm eternally jealous of Natalie Portman.  She's so beautiful and she's a splendid actress.  She did the split role well.  Ian McDiarmid did a wonderful job playing a seemingly good senator on the surface with evil intentions underneath.  Ray Parks... WOW!  He far exceeded my expectations. He was SO GREAT!  And let's not forget his menacing facial expressions. The first time he appeared I caught my breath.  As a villain, he demanded attention and was very, very effective.  Some people have complained that he should have been more like Darth Vader, but I'm proud of George Lucas for being able to create different kinds of villains.  Which brings me to the duel!  Can I just say I was completely taken in by this?  It was the most breathtaking duel I have EVER seen, Star Wars-wise or otherwise.  It was incredible.  This was a very fitting end to the movie. This scene alone made the whole thing worth it.  Not that the rest wasn't &quot;worth it,&quot; but for those who can do nothing but complain about the movie, they need to see it for this scene.  Fast-paced, tragic, awe-inspiring all at once.  The pod race was enjoyable in every aspect except one.  I hated the announcer.  That was an unnecessary character cliche, and I didn't find him funny at all.  I thought the plot point explaining the Force scientifically was interesting.  I'm still contemplating my reactions to throwing this in. I'm not sure if it was necessary, but I think I did like it.  I would have liked to have seen more of the Jedi Council.  I was looking forward to seeing Yaddle, among others, but we never got to know him at all. Samuel L. Jackson was superb in his role.  I do wish he could have had a little more screen time, but again, his character will be more developed in the next episodes.  The costumes were gorgeous!  Bravo!  The music was astounding.  Perfect. Wonderful.  John Williams is nothing short of a genius.  Duel of the Fates - Mmmm...  Truly moving.  And finally, the special effects.  I was surprisingly impressed.  I used to cringe at the mention of computer animated characters.  This movie has believable CGI characters.  The sets were beautiful as well.  It all fit together into a believable galaxy. Naboo was breathtakingly beautiful!  It is indeed a breakthrough in movie technology, and once again, George Lucas was the first to do it.  I have to add, though, that the real, physical characters are who I ultimately ended up caring for.  CGI characters will never be quite as &quot;human&quot; (for the lack of a better term).  As for the story itself, of course it leaves loose ends.  It's supposed to. It's comparable to A New Hope.  It's overall an exciting, happy movie that promises more to come.  So yes, there were a few things I would like to have been different.  I expected that.  Overall though, a fabulous movie.  One I will see again and again.  It is destined to take its place next to its predecessors!"
"Poor Phantom Menace! People really hate this film. Over the years I&#x27;ve heard people complain about the dialogue, the story, the acting, well pretty much everything really, and I can agree with almost all of these complaints. The hype for this film back in 1999 was enormous and when the film finally released, well...  The whole idea of the prequel trilogy was to tell the story of Anakin Skywalker and how he went from a small boy on Tattooine to becoming Darth Vader. This whole premise sounds awesome and as a kid, I was really excited for this. I was always very interested in Darth Vader&#x27;s backstory so getting a whole trilogy based around that was super exciting. When I saw the Phantom Menace, all my hopes were dashed...  When the evil Trade Federation organise a blockade around the peaceful planet of Naboo, jedi knights Qui-Gon Jinn and Obi-Wan Kenobi are sent to confront the leaders of the federation, however the leader of the federation Nute Gunray is ordered to kill the jedi knights forcing them to flee down to the planet of Naboo where they must find and warn the queen who has already been captured by the federation...  So this is basically the plot for the entire film, and what doesn&#x27;t help is the constant political discussions and the dull senate scenes. May I remind you that this film is aimed primarily at kids, what kid is gonna sit through this? I sure as hell didn&#x27;t, I always avoided this film because I didn&#x27;t want to sit through this political bullshit.  The underlying plot of the emperor trying to convince the queen to move for a vote of no-confidence on Chancellor Valorum so he can replace him and take emergency powers to do all his evil stuff behind the scenes and... I don&#x27;t really know what&#x27;s going on, this film does a lousy job in explaining the plot, which is a problem when you&#x27;re setting the foundations for a whole new trilogy.  You just want the plot to end so we can get to some awesome action scenes, but no we have to mess around on Tattooine for 40 minutes first. One of the big problems I have with this film is how much time it spends on Tattooing doing absolutely nothing. We meet Anakin Skywalker, the main focus of the trilogy, on this planet, and he&#x27;s a child-slave who... no actually that&#x27;s it he&#x27;s a child-slave, I have nothing else. This kid has no character whatsoever, he has a crush on Padme and he&#x27;s good a building things, we have nothing else on this kid, and yet Qui-Gon spends the next half an hour obsessing over him, taking samples and discussing exactly what he is and what his skills mean, why?  When we finally leave Tattooine, Qui-Gon heads to the Jedi council to get Anakin approved for training, and the incredibly dull jedi council featuring an irritating CGI Yoda and a dull and incredibly flat Mace Windu, turn him down saying: &#x27;he&#x27;s too old&#x27;, that&#x27;s it! This council is absolute crap. They do nothing, they are constantly fretting about what this blockade could mean for the jedi and yet not one of them do a god damn thing! Seriously, get off your arses and do something!  The climax consists of an awesome lightsaber fight, a team of separatists shooting through a castle, an underwhelming space attack on the Gunray&#x27;s control ship, and a ridiculous invasion from the pathetic Gunguns, Wow!   Anakin destroys the Gunray&#x27;s control ship, the separatists confront Viceroy Gunray, and Darth Maul kills Qui-Gon before Obi-Wan kills Darth Maul. Obi-Wan decides to train Anakin, there&#x27;s a big celebration, and the credits begin rolling!  The lightsaber fight may be the best thing about this film, but the scenes with Anakin destroying the control ship are just daft. It&#x27;s not the premise as such, I think it&#x27;s more Jake Lloyd&#x27;s performance with his constant &#x22;Woah&#x22;s and &#x22;Wooo&#x22;s which get on my nerves so I can&#x27;t take it seriously.  The film&#x27;s acting is a major problem. I don&#x27;t think it&#x27;s the actors themselves as Liam Neeson and Ewan McGregor are both brilliant actors, but I feel it&#x27;s a combination of flat dialogue and an over- reliance on bluescreen and CGI, both of which look dreadful. The actors are usually talking to something they can&#x27;t see which means there&#x27;s no emotion in their performances because acting emotively to an empty space is quite difficult.  Also Lucas&#x27;s script is full of flat lines and uninteresting dialogue, never at any point did I find myself thinking &#x27;what an awesome line&#x27;, instead I was usually thinking &#x27;what the hell does that actually mean?&#x27;.  Another problem with this cast is the film never uses them. Liam Neeson just walks around delivering incredibly flat lines, Ewan McGregor spends most of his time in the background, Natalie Portman is just there and Samuel L. Jackson sits in a chair fretting about stuff. Boring!   I don&#x27;t think it&#x27;s really possible to review this film without talking about the infamous Jar Jar Binks, while I think he&#x27;s visually impressive, it&#x27;s the personality and the voice that get on my nerves. Maybe Lucas was trying to overcompensate for the endless political talk, but here we have the stereotypical, irritating cartoon character that&#x27;s obviously trying too hard to appeal to kids.  So... The Phantom Menace is the dullest of the Star Wars films and my personal least favourite. Anything cool that happens is overshadowed by something dull. Even the awesome lightsaber battles don&#x27;t redeem the disaster that is the Phantom Menace.   After this disaster, it took three years before we got the second part of the Prequel trilogy, Attack of the Clones, would it be as bad as the first, well, fans will have you believe so..."
"The Phantom Menace propels the Star Wars franchise into the realms of ridicule. It&#x27;s excruciating to see a successful series damaged so inadvertently, yet sadly George Lucas has succeeded in doing so. His epic creation has somewhat backfired and gotten far too creatively arrogant, introducing frankly embarrassing characters such as Jar Jar Binks. Lucas seems to think that we&#x27;re interested in this dim-witted half life and dedicates half the movie to the Gungan, following him as he garners respect and popularity through being an idiot. And it&#x27;s not just the aliens who suffer under inadequate direction - genuinely talented actors such as Liam Neeson seem lost amongst the chaos and Natalie Portman surely delivers her worst performance to date, speaking her lines in tired monotone. Amidst all the hopelessness and ineptitude, there&#x27;s one inescapable feeling that screams throughout the movie - Star Wars has become too digitalised. At times, the special effects are steeped in grandeur, at others, they become irritating and ugly - the movie begins to rely on them too captivate as it progresses but by the end of the Boonta Eve pod race, intrigue and excitement have been replaced by draining disappointment.  I have critiqued heavily but all the above is sadly and depressingly true. Yet Star Wars movies have always had that impressive quality of being &#x22;an event&#x22; and I&#x27;d be misleading you completely if I were to say that The Phantom Menace is not &#x22;an event&#x22; itself. I mean, the final lightsaber duel is possibly the most wonderfully choreographed and wildly exhilarating thing to come along in years, it&#x27;s just a shame that it had to be interspersed with a load of other plots and happenings. But this editing also gave an edge to the final scenes, a sense of totality and grandiose. And really, when you look back, that&#x27;s what Star Wars: Episode I was all about.  A film of flaws."
"So you have the largest franchise of all time and you have at least 10 years to come up with 3 prequels with an infinite budget that are guaranteed to make multi billion&#x27;s of dollars. I guarantee you that Lucas allowed 0 input from anyone. There&#x27;s no way that anyone would go along with the elementary level dialogue that Lucas wrote... I mean it&#x27;s really embarrassing (especially in part 2). Like I said, you&#x27;re essentially making a movie with an infinite budget that can go no wrong. Could he have at least got a writing crew together to hash out the dialogue? The jackhole could still tell the story he wanted too and even select what dialogue/story worked best from the several writers that would come up with it. This was such a colossal failure! It really doesn&#x27;t get worse then this. Taking the budget into account the 3 star wars prequels are the worst movies ever made and that&#x27;s not a far fetched statement."
"I must say this movie was a bit of a disappointment right after coming off from seeing the original trilogy (A New Hope, The Empire Strikes Back, Return of the Jedi). This movie did not contain enough action and was a bit more of an adventure type. In my opinion, this is by far the worst Star Wars film of all six. The character Jar Jar Binks was a little bit funny at first, but after a while he just got annoying. He was supposed to be like the new Chewbacca character which everyone was supposed to like, but that was obviously a failure. The only memorable part of the movie, in my opinion, was the lightsaber duel in the end. The movie over all seemed too childish."
"What Happened George Lucas, What Happened? How could you screw up possibly the most anticipated film of all time to the levels of this film The Phantom Menace. Now as a massive fan of the original Star Wars films I even struggle to watch this film because of how bad it is and what it represents in the ideology of Lucas for Star Wars films. We had our warning with the Ewoks in Return of The Jedi that we should have realised that Star Wars was being turned into a kids film and not a very good one at that. This film is set about 30 years before the original Star Wars and sees two Jedi Qui-Gon-Jin and Obi-Wan-Kenobi attempting to save the planet of Naboo from a hostile takeover from the Sith while also running into a boy who could possibly bring balance to the force. The main negative of this film is the script and just how wooden some of the dialogue is between characters that just shouldn&#x27;t be, also the main reason I Love Star Wars is because of the characters and how we are meant to identify with them and care about them, in this film you will not really care about anybody even when you are truly meant to. But the straw that breaks the camels back is Jar Jar Binks oh my god this my be the most childish and annoying character ever put on the screen and if people hated The Ewoks then they haven&#x27;t seen anything close to Jar Jar Binks. There are some positives though like I believe Liam Neeson and Ewan McGregor put in good performances as our two Jedi&#x27;s but that wasn&#x27;t enough. The main positives for me is The Pod race which I find incredibly cool and exciting and also the final encounter between Qui-Gon, Obi-Wan and Darth Maul. This is one of the best lightsaber fights in Star Wars and it is great because of all three participants. A huge positive as well is that this is Star Wars and the music is always great and this is no different even in this bad film. I am glad we have future Star Wars films and now that Lucas isn&#x27;t directing I am optimistic that these new films will return Star Wars to its glory days."
"A lover of 4, 5, &#x26; 6, this one is boring.  First time I watch with my boys, I fell asleep 4 times. Same thing tonight 2 years later. Was not tired before it began. Liam&#x27;s voice is too grand for lame dialog. I am convinced that these movies use weird voices to hide meaningless dialog. Sorry for bad review. I wanted to like the movie. Another problem is that the acting is sub-par. Well, I guess that with a script that is sub-par, what can actors do. Even Samuel Jackson looks lost and stiff with this terrible script. I was hoping that the second time through would be a family bonding moment with my boys, but I woke up 4 times to them laughing at my snoring!"
"I have to say that i was one of th people who pays $ 6 dollars to see only the trailer back in 1998 (i see it in Texas).  Of course i was completely excited (i think everybody do) and i never stop to talk of the trailer in the next 6 months.  The big day finally arrival and...I really really big disappointment let&#x27;s just start:  The acting very plane,the direction don&#x27;t exist,the music offers nothing new (with the exception of The duel of fates theme),the special effects very CGI and the action-adventure of the movie is only the third act.  The only good thing of the movie:The duel between Obi-wan-Qui Gon jinn vs. Darth maul and that&#x27;s it!!!...Only that.  I remember to go out of the theater and say &#x22;I waiting 16 years for this?&#x22;...1999 was the year of THE MATRIX and not for Episode 1 and now 13 years later i still feel the disappointment."
"Star Wars. The most successful, most loved and most talked about movie franchise of all time ended in 1983. For decades after the millions of loyal fans went nowhere, still completely swept up in the now dormant Star Wars world. Then one day, like a flash of heavenly lightning, there is an announcement, Star Wars is back! People all over the world rejoiced, looked up at the sky with teary eyes and kissed the ground they walked on as they heard the news. It was a wonderful day to be alive.  The build-up was unprecedented. Three long years the world waited impatiently for what seemed too good to imagine, it was a miracle, it was the second coming of Jesus, it was by far the most anticipated film of all time. Three years of production, sixteen years of ideas, this was bound to be the greatest movie ever seen.  And what did we get? Garbage. The most anticipated movie in history turned out to be also one of the worst, it was genuinely terrible.  It was so devastating many fans not only lost faith in Star Wars, but in movies themselves. It finally proved life wasn&#x27;t fair, there was no justice in the world, you&#x27;re beloved family would turn on you and chop your head off. It was cinematic apocalypse.  I saw this movie on the 31st of December 1999, and at the countdown to midnight I was hoping the Y2K Bug rumors were true so this tragedy and all evidence that remained could be erased from history forever.  The world stared blankly ahead in horror, there is no god."
"I am writing this review a full six years after the last of the prequels was released in theaters. Looking back at the full body of work that is the prequels, and comparing them to the original three and any other movie released for that matter, I now consider this the best of the three prequels. That&#x27;s like somebody receiving an award for the tallest midget, however. Though this film had a horribly conceived plot, at least it had a horribly conceived plot. The two movies that followed (Attack of the Clones and Revenge of the Sith) were both completely incoherent messes. These three movies compare in no way with the original three, and in fact don&#x27;t hold up well with your run-of-the-mill Hollywood blockbuster. When viewing all six films with an adult frame of mind (I was alive when the original three made their theatrical debuts) it is clear that the Empire Strikes Back is easily the best film. The original and Return of the Jedi are next, a far chasm away from Empire. Then there is another huge chasm with this movie being the &#x22;best&#x22; of the prequels. That&#x27;s why I give this film two stars. The extra star is for the horribly conceived plot. The last two films, in my opinion, are so bad that they don&#x27;t even qualify as films, because they lack an important ingredient that makes a film a film. That ingredient is a plot."
After much hype Star Wars returns with the three prequels that will probably continue to divide fans for the rest of time.   Visually the film is stunning (by 1999 standards) with the final fight scene and the pod race in particular being very good.  The acting is also pretty good with Liam Neeson and Ewan McGregor bouncing off of each other as master and apprentice Jedi.   However it is in the storytelling that this film falls flat and the overall tone of the film wavers from being a sort of kiddie friendly outing to more of a political space epic and ends up failing to be either successfully.   Overall a good starting place for the series and one that younger fans will relish but may leave those familiar with the older films not feeling the full force.
"People are actually going to hate this movie completely because of jar jar Binks? besides that name being just as awesome as Jabba the Hutt, or Han Solo, he wasn&#x27;t that bad of a supporting character. Yeah he speaks in a slightly Jamaican dialect, that&#x27;s not racist. Just lazy. If any person was raised in Jamaica they would speak the native Patwa language. I don&#x27;t see Sasquatch gathering lawyers to sue Lucas for rights to Chewbacca&#x27;s character likeness.   It had big flaws. The cool thing about the old star wars trilogy is it didn&#x27;t try to be establish itself. There were warriors and bounty hunters and princesses and crime syndicates. That was all it needed, no explanation, yet a story that a good 6th of the earths population will never forget. .... the new one, kinda screwed up with the pseudo-rational politics and the &#x22;not sci-fi, Science!&#x22; thing that they did with the force and light sabers and such. BUT! Natalie Portman, Ewan Mcgregor, Christopher Lee, Samuel L Jackson, and Liam f****** Neeson. along with a pod racing scene that was so original and exciting. There was some great choreography and compelling light saber battles. None of us could have come up with the original 3 films. I mean, Empire was so awesome. Trust me i understand how much those films meant to us, they were just as much our movies as George&#x27;s. But the sad truth is THEY ARE HIS FILMS. he can do whatever he wants. no sci-fi is ever gonna be as good as The Empire Strikes Back T_T"
"This was the first Star Wars film I&#x27;d ever seen, I saw it aged 5 at the cinema. At the time of course, I thought it was amazing and couldn&#x27;t wait for a sequel to come out. But when I asked several years later, it turned out that their had already been other Star Wars movies, which I promptly watched and enjoyed. Then I compared Episode 1 to the originals and realised that the originals were leaps and bounds ahead of the new Star Wars. In fact, I soon realised that Episode 1 had a lot of flaws and I just forgot about it completely.  Recently however, I re-watched the movie again on TV and whilst the flaws were apparent I realised that this Star Wars actually had some things going for it. The flaws of this movie have been addressed on over a million occasions so I&#x27;ll focus on the positive points mostly.  Here are some points I want to bring up, some negative some positive.  1) The acting. Some of the actors do try very hard to give a good performance, i.e Liam Neeson and Ewan McGregor. Both of whom are very good actors and try their best with the scripts they have been given. However, even though the Star Wars prequels have gained notoriety for their truly awful and cringe-worthy dialogue. The Phantom Menace is probably the least cringey movie in terms of dialogue out of the prequels. There are no moments where you start shouting &#x27;Noooooo&#x27; at the screen, except for two particular characters which I&#x27;m just about to get to.  2) Anakin Skywalker. A number of people consider Jake Lloyd to be the reason that Anakin is such a terrible character, but I myself blame George Lucas. Anakin serves almost no purpose in this movie. Why is he even in this movie? I know Lucas must have wanted to throw some homages in, which he does successfully with Yoda and Jabba the Hut. However Anakin is not necessary and is portrayed as one of the most unlikeable and annoying children in cinema history. Bad choice Lucas, bad choice.  3) JarJar Binks. What a lame, cringe-worthy and pathetic excuse for a character. Lucas has created characters like this in the original trilogy, with far more success. I&#x27;m talking about C-3PO, in the originals he was always getting into absurd situations and managed to be annoying in a GOOD way. But JarJar Binks just has no appeal whatsoever as a character and should have lost the stereotyped Jamaican accent. The only good thing I can say on behalf of JarJar is that he does play a role in the plot. He isn&#x27;t just (horrifically failed) comic relief.  4) CGI. This was made in 1999, a year before the new millennium so cgi was an inevitable inclusion. However the cgi in this film is not terrible. It was nice to see a non-cgi Yoda for the last time and also George Lucas uses the cgi in a way to improve the story and introduce new landscapes. The only scene of gratuitous cgi was the pod race scene. It looked cool for the first lap, then it just got boring.  I personally don&#x27;t think that the Star Wars prequels are terrible, well okay they are terrible when you dissect them and discuss them at great length. However they do have good watch-ability factor, JarJar, Jake Lloyd and bad dialogue aside.  I rate this movie 6/10 for the potential that it has and for the things that it has going for it. I don&#x27;t think that it&#x27;s in league with the originals, how could it be? I believe that prequels are often doomed from the beginning. Movies which HAVE to end a certain way often have a lot of restrictions and have difficulty turning out the way people want them to. However taking this into account, I think Lucas did okay."
the title says it all!!! a complete waste a good time in your life... it&#39;s actually worth watching the Empire Strikes back again on a mini TV than spending money in the theater for this one!!! I am not sure what else to write for this movie as IMDb does not allow the comments to be less than 10 lines... So I&#39;m gonna repeat what I wrote earlier. the title says it all!!! a complete waste a good time in your life... it&#39;s actually worth watching the Empire Strikes back again on a mini TV than spending money in the theater for this one!!! I am not sure what else to write for this movie as IMDb does not allow the comments to be less than 10 lines... So I&#39;m gonna repeat what I wrote earlier. the title says it all!!! a complete waste a good time in your life... it&#39;s actually worth watching the Empire Strikes back again on a mini TV than spending money in the theater for this one!!! I am not sure what else to write for this movie as IMDb does not allow the comments to be less than 10 lines... So I&#39;m gonna repeat what I wrote earlier.
"There is a theory around stating that it is not violent movies which make viewers aggressive but bad ones. After watching this piece of s**t at the cinema, even PAYING for it, I can tell you this theory has some merit. At least I definitely wanted to skin some cute furry little animals alive after watching this masterpiece. And this is the only movie so far that has done this to me, at least to this extent. I just hope the b******s who gave us the Ewoks and Jar-Jar Binks will go and take a running jump. Sorry if I got carried away, but this is what that movie will do to you. If I had seen any chance of succeeding, I would have filed a lawsuit to get my money back (and maybe something on top for all the pain and anguish it caused me watching it). What a far cry from the first two Star Wars flicks."
"You have to put it all in context for this movie; the original Star Wars trilogy was one of the biggest kids marketing successes of Hollywood history, if not the biggest, depending on how myopic you are regarding science fiction fandom. Obviously, in case you didn&#x27;t know, numerous characters, settings and concepts were lifted from Isaac Asimov&#x27;s &#x22;Foundation&#x22; trilogy, and there are similarities to Akira Kurasawa&#x27;s films also, but basically the original series looked and felt 100% original due to the concept art of Ralph McQuarrie. People will disagree with that statement, but seriously, if you look at his concept designs and scene paintings, they contain pretty much all the key scenes that were so memorable in the original series.  The public probably didn&#x27;t really want or expect another trilogy, but when it was announced that it was in production, everyone was, like, &#x22;Hell yeah, I&#x27;ll buy a ticket&#x22;, by which I mean pretty much half the planet. The problem was that Ralph McQuarrie didn&#x27;t want to come back to do the design work, and the late nineties CGI efforts looks airless, over-complicated and fake.  Well hang on, the movie looks good in promo stills (that said, so do frames from Michael Bays Transformers pictures), but the actual cast telling the story in Star Wars Episode I is pure vanilla. Where the original series launched the career of Harrison Ford into the big time, this movie pretty much killed Liam Neeson&#x27;s career for a decade or more. This is an actual quote on the craft of acting from the Guardian newspaper two weeks before the films opening  QUOTE   &#x22;Honest to God, I don&#x27;t want to do it any more.&#x22;   Neeson appears as Qui-Gon Jinn in Star Wars, Episode 1: the Phantom Menace, which opens in the US in a fortnight. He blamed the industry generally for his decision. &#x27;Film is a director&#x27;s medium; it has nothing to do with actors,&#x27;  &#x27;We are basically puppets, walking around, hitting marks, saying lines. Producers make all the money, and you get the sense that they hate actors.&#x27; UNQUOTE  Also, Ewen McGregor said the movie pretty much sucked but later withdrew his statement, probably for financial reasons.  The film sold HEAPS of tickets, but no-one can actually relate the plot back afterward; essentially a princess is in the middle of a trade embargo and is secretly moving supplies to the green planet of Naboo to arm locals for an incursion against the galactic empire, but the story is hard to follow and typically the set design engulfs the acting on screen. Natalie Portman&#x27;s acting is completely flat, and others talk in pseudo-heroic British theater accents to sound &#x22;chivalrous&#x22;, rather than using the natural expression of their voices. Part of the problem also stems from excessive scenes with characters interacting with CGI characters, CGI props and CGI backdrops.  The main problem is the lack of ace McQuarrie designs from the original, while there&#x27;s a lot of spaceships and robots on display, they all seem flimsy, insectile or horribly overstated. There&#x27;s a great pod racer sequence featuring Darth Vader as an 8 year old (or something?? How come C3P0 and R2D2 know who Skywalker&#x27;s real father is? Isn&#x27;t this the worst plot hole in a major film ever? Possibly). Um, yeah - there&#x27;s an ace pod racer sequence with lots of great angles and CGI machinery design, but as usual its so slick and airless that once you get over the initial buzz of seeing a slick chase sequence, there&#x27;s little reason to go back and re-watch it, because the characters don&#x27;t really sink in and as I mentioned, the plot outline is a mystery due to poor writing and exposition.  A lot of people hated on Jar-Jar Binks, a racist stereotype of an incompetent Jamaican/tribal character that provides unfunny pratfalls and talks in gibberish. Star Wars was always something of a white anglo-Saxon fantasy, but there had never been so many unflattering Asian stereotypes, nor Jamaican stereotypes in earlier episodes of &#x22;Star Wars&#x22;. Essentially Lucas fell for the trap of making the stupid, incompetent character a foreigner, and numerous bad guys foreigners, while the heros are cod-Brits.  After he&#x27;d killed Star Wars, Lucas left the series. I can&#x27;t say honestly that he can direct, much less write a great movie anymore. (Howard the Duck??). He was a very bright star in seventies cinema, a progressive decade filled with great films, now just a rich old fool. If you&#x27;re wondering, he was obsessed with sci-fi comics and car engines as a kid, which may have influenced the original Star Wars aesthetic, but just to kick his audience in the teeth for caring, he wrote the Episode I script himself and its sheer pulp toilet paper. With these kinds of movies, if kids aren&#x27;t responding positively you&#x27;ve definitely missed the mark."
"I don&#x27;t rate this movie as an awful movie in order to bash it. This movie is simply bad, very bad, very very bad. I guess if that would have been the first of the series, the Star Wars series won&#x27;t be such a cult. I felt I lost my time. The characters are boring. The bad guys have no charisma and die so fast. Jar Jar binks is probably one of the most annoying characters in the movie history. The pod race is looooooong and never ending. Even the special effects look fake. Well, what there to save the movie ? Seriously nothing... I didn&#x27;t even want to experiment the following episodes... I might try them someday as I&#x27;ve heard they are not as bad, but don&#x27;t lose your time with this one."
"There is plenty of Star Wars stuff going on here, but so much of everything else borders on amateur filmmaking, that it becomes harder and harder to just endure the talky parts. Or to be totally precise, almost every part where there is any talking going on. I suppose after so much appreciation along the preceding 22 years George Lucas couldn&#x27;t resist but to take his place in the directors chair again, maybe forgetting, that while he might be a visionary, he did not collect any profound experience as a director since 1977. Liam Neeson and Evan McGregor kind of keep tight, but from the horrible delivery of the blunt lines by the supporting cast, to all the stupid little nuances of the extras, the discoordinated settings, to the messy cinematography and editing, everything is a testimony to Lucas&#x27; inability to run a tight ship. Or generally a ship at all. If this wouldn&#x27;t be a Starwars movie, with tons of expensive, state of the art CGI overshadowing clumsy filmmaking, the movie wouldn&#x27;t have made it into the B category."
"Star Wars: The Phantom Mencae easily has two of the most annoying characters in film history. I&#x27;m talking about Jar Jar Binks and young Anakin Skywalker. These aren&#x27;t just minor characters, either. I swear, if I heard one more yippee or the high-pitched nasal- whine, I was going to throw something through the TV. Fourtuneately, the TV is still there and I was able to restrain myself, especially since the rest of the film was pretty good. I love that pod race scene.  It should be understood immediately that the worst of the original Star Wars series is better than the best of the prequel trilogy. And this is by no means the best of the new saga. While it isn&#x27;t bad, most of the movie is pretty fun, if not handled with utmost care. But those two aforementioned characters are really a horrible drag on the film. Jake Lloyd can&#x27;t act worth a dime. And he looks nothing like Hayden Christensen either. Although that was a problem with future casting, so Ill save that rant for a later review.  As it stands, this is a movie with more impressive cinematography than an actual story. George Lucas basically took the information already revealed in the original trilogy and put in on screen, with a few characters tacked on. I got the feeling that with the ending already a foregone conclusion, Lucas seemed to forget to pay any real attention to the script. It&#x27;s still somewhat interesting to see the origin story on screen, though. But those two characters...  The standbys from the original, and much better, trilogy are here, at least for the most part. The younger characters-Luke, Leia, Han Solo-they aren&#x27;t, but Yoda&#x27;s back, Obi Wan, etc. They&#x27;re back and as important as Ever. (And Yoda still seems to be older than dirt.) He was also one of the coolest characters, and still is. Darth Vadar was pretty awesome too.  The cinematography is amazing. With camera jumping from desert landscapes to jungle terrain to whatever other geographical features anyone could possibly imagine. You know what would make these already impressive sets even better? If a certain Jar Jar character wasn&#x27;t traipsing across them. I can put up with Little Anakin, at least, because Jake Lloyd isn&#x27;t in any future films, and He is an integral character. I honestly sometimes wonder whether George Lucas just threw him in there to bug people.  So while the film isn&#x27;t great, it is good for the most part. However, I can&#x27;t honestly say I enjoyed myself when a certain two who will go unnamed left me debating whether or not to claw out my eardrums."
"This horrible movie is the best evidence of everything thats wrong in film industry these days ... what a shameless exploitation of one of a greatest trilogy if not the greatest in history of cinema .Idiotic and badly acted dialogs , most annoying kid in movies ever ,no atmosphere ,totaly useless appearance by Jar -jar something ..not funny . No plot ,battle between fish people and goofy robots . No carma or personality on Jedi knights ... this movie really has nothing at all to do with first three ,amazing that there was a same person behind them ,but i guess Lucas has shown in so many ways that he has lost compass long time ago...especially when remastering earlier movies with some stupid modern animation ..without all that new tech bs those movies had an amazing atmosphere to it . Truly a pointless and horrible movie but i guess it has served its purpose ..to make money on the glory of old movies ...no traces of art whatsoever . Perhaps fun parts should bring this movie a higher grade ,but exactly cos of what this name brings and cos every second of dialog in this film stinks like hell ,i give it 1 of 10 .. shameful"
"I first watched Star Wars (the New Hope) back in 1977 and I thought it was the best movie made of all time. I thought that Phantom Menace would equal the brilliance of that first film. After all Star Wars had a great story, great pacing, and the acting was pretty good for a sci-fic film.   Compared to that film - the Phantom Menace pales in comparison - its filled with stupid characters like Jar Jar Binks which gets a negative 5 rating from me. And worse of all, the child actor casted to play Anakin Skywalker was hopelessly out of his depth - he gets a negative 6. But to be fair to the little kid - he&#x27;s just a child actor who was given an abysmal script. Why didn&#x27;t they use the Haley Joel-Osman &#x22;I SEE DEAD PEOPLE&#x22; ?  Furthermore, we are to expect that &#x22;Annie&#x22; will one day marry Padme? There&#x27;s a serious height difference going on there.  However you do get to see moments of G.Lucas&#x27; brilliance - a bit like seeing that glint of diamond under the tons of rubble. Darth Maul was very well cast/written +5 and Natalie Portman played a brilliant Queen Amidale +5. But the best parts of the movie is still stuck under that ton of ugly rubble. Its a pity that Marcia Lucas the real craftsperson of the Star Wars series - she won the Academy Award for editing the first original Star Wars movie - was not around to mold this into a real work of art. She would probably have convinced George to have got rid of Jar Jar Blinks and have devised a better script and plot - not to mention getting a more suitable actor to play Anakin.  But of course the special effects of the film was fantastic. So +5. However, Lucas&#x27; awful plot idea of the midichlorians gives it another -5.  The pacing is horrid. A lot of the plot doesn&#x27;t make sense.   A really horrible effort by George Lucas. All that money went to his head - its just a big showcase for his CGI. What a waste.  Anyway - you should watch the original 1977 Star Wars and compare it to the 1997 re-release - this time with all the crap that Lucas&#x27; wife deleted. Then you realize why she won the Academy Award. Pity that Lucas didn&#x27;t get it."
"George Lucas once said you can not replace good story telling with computer graphics, or words to that effect. It seems over the years that phrase became lost as George began creating and filming three of the most disappointing prequels ever to be released on celluloid.  I can only echo what other critics have said of these films. The characters are charmless or annoying, the dialogue and acting is laughable, there are numerous plot holes, the actors look bored speaking their lines with all the passion, charisma and conviction of wet cardboard. Lucas has tarnished his own reputation with these duds presumably to satisfy his own ego ensuring he and no one else completed the Star Wars series.  Avoid unless you&#x27;re a child or have an IQ of single digits."
"If this were not Star Wars this film would never have made it past direct-to- video or Syfy markets. The kid who plays Anakin is the worst offender, but even skilled actors like Liam and Ewan and Natalie give lifeless performances. The story is full of holes and the bad guys pose little threat.   I recently rewatched this with my kids in anticipation of Episode 7. During the final battle, when Anakin destroys the space station and all the droids power down, Jar Jar bops one of the droids on the head and its head tumbles off. My ten-year-old daughter said, &#x22;What? Huh? When my toys&#x27; batteries dies they don&#x27;t just fall apart. Why&#x27;d the droid&#x27;s head fall off?&#x22; I had no answer because there is no logical explanation for this. Same goes for much of this pile of excrement."
"Director: George Lucas  Writer: George Lucas  Starring: Liam Neeson, Ewan McGregor, Natalie Portman, and Jake Lloyd  Release Date: May 19, 1999  MPAA Rating: PG for sci-fi action/violence  Runtime: 2 hours and 16 minutes  Studio: 20th Century Fox  If you&#x27;re wondering why I&#x27;m reviewing the Phantom Menace first, that&#x27;s because I&#x27;m reviewing the movies in chronological order, which means I have to starts with this one. So, what do I think of this film? Well...what can I say, honestly? Everyone said it, and I&#x27;m going to say it too, Star Wars - Episode I: The Phantom Menace is a massive disappointment, especially when compared to the original trilogy. I don&#x27;t think that it&#x27;s an awful film, but still, the reason why I&#x27;m even reviewing this film is because The Force Awakens (the new Star Wars film) is coming out. So, let&#x27;s get started.  The plot of Star Wars - Episode I: The Phantom Menace revolves around Jedi Knight Qui- Gon Jinn and his master, Obi Wan Kenobi. They are sent to confront Nute Gunray, the leader of a trade federation, that is planning to take over Naboo. However, the plan backfires, causing the two Jedi escape and, along with a Gungan named Jar Jar Binks, to head to Naboo to warn Queen Amadala. As soon, as they discovered that the droids captured Nabo, the two Jedi save the Queen and leave the planet, with her. Eventually, they land on Tatooine, to hep their ship. There, they meet Anakin Skywalker, a slave boy, who has strong powers of the force. Because of this, Qui Gon wants to train Anakin, to become a Jedi. Meanwhile, a sith named Darth Maul has been sent, by a mysterious figure to ill the Jedi. That is my best attempt at summarizing the plot, without spoilers.  My main problem with this movie is one that, surprisingly, doesn&#x27;t get talked about, that much, by most people: there is no main goal, in this film. The Phantom Menace has a plot structure that goes like this: the Jedi must confront the trade federation. This backfires, so they must save the queen. Then, after that they land on Naboo and to get more fuel. While they&#x27;re on Naboo, a new goal appears, which is that they must train a slave boy, as he has strong force powers. During this time, a new goal is being set up, as a sith is hunting them down. Basically this film has so many goals, that after it is done with one of them, it goes to the next one. One of the things that makes a good film, is that there is one main goal, for the plot. The original Star Wars (aka, Episode IV: a New Hope) had the heroes trying to retrieve the Death Star plans from the villains. Alien had the characters trying to survive, by getting rid of the alien that&#x27;s on the ship. Also, the story is not very interesting. Many people have complained about this, but the movie has long scenes of political discussion, and that is where the movie gets boring, which is what movie should never be.  Acting wise, this move is mixed. Liam Neeson and Ewan McGregor do very strong jobs as playing Qui Gon Jinn and Obi Wan Kenobi (I also like Ian McDiarmid as Palpatines, despite not being in this film much), but I can&#x27;t say the same for Natalie Portman, who sounds like a robot and doesn&#x27;t seem to know what she is doing, or Jake Llyod, who, as many people have said, is really miscast as Anakin, as he is very annoying. Of course, we have the character of Jar Jar Binks, played by Ahmeed Best. I don&#x27;t really have anything to say about him, other than the fact that he is pointless, has an annoying voice and bad humor, and is pretty much a racist stereotype. The rest of the characters are pretty bland and underdeveloped.  Still, The Phantom Menace is not the worst movie ever (for me, that&#x27;s The Last Airbender), as there are good points that I can say, aside form some of the acting. Even though the film lacks the energetic direction that was in the original trilogy, the action scenes are still pretty entertaining, for being pretty well shot and choreographed (particularity the final lightsaber battle, which is awesome). I also love the visual backdrops, as there are so many of them (ranging from planets, such as Tatooine and Naboo), and are given a lot of great detail. I cannot say the same for the CGI for the machines and aliens though, as the machines look mediocre at best, and the aliens (such as the Gungans) look like something that came out of an animated film. However, I have seen worse CGI effects (*cough*Clash of the Titans remake*cough*).  Overall, whilst Star Wars - Episode I: The Phantom Menace is not an abysmal film, by any means, it is certainly an incredibly underwhelming one. Coming off the original trilogy, the film has huge potential to be great, but it was all wasted, in favor of special effects. Don&#x27;t get me wrong, some of them are great, but the story and characters should&#x27;ve been focused on, much more. I told you I didn&#x27;t have anything new to say about this film.  FINAL VEREDICT: C- (BAD)"
"I was once a Star Wars fan.  I am one no longer.  For me, Episode I (and II and III when you come to mention it) do not exist.  Some would say, perhaps, that my view is clouded by my having been a great admirer of films IV, V and VI. This maybe so, but I know a good film when I see one, and &#39;Episode I: The Phantom Menace&#39; is not a good film. (I will not underline the reasons for this belief because I don&#39;t have 24hours, and besides, all that can be found wrong with this film can be found in most of the lower star ratings... I concur with them all)   It&#39;s not a good film and it is most certainly not a good prequel and it is a shame that George Lucas has had to sell out like this.  Watch IV, V and VI (preferably before the &#39;touch-ups&#39;) and dream of what those prequels could have been... Your imagination will beat anything Mr Lucas could have come up with and for a lot less money..."
"An indiscriminatingly awful, facepalm-inducing, excessively cartoonish, unbelievably stupid &#x26; mind-numbingly pathetic piece of sh*t that deserves to be ranked amongst the worst atrocities ever committed on film canvas, the first chapter of George Lucas&#x27; prequel trilogy &#x26; fourth instalment in the Star Wars saga marks its creator&#x27;s return to film direction after a 22-year hiatus and shows that world cinema was far better off without his directional inputs.  Set three decades before the events of Star Wars in a galaxy far far away, the story of The Phantom Menace follows two Jedi Knights who are sent to negotiate a peaceful end to an interplanetary trade dispute but when that falls apart, they flee from their hostile situation to warn the Queen and end up stumbling upon a young child who exhibits inherent powers of the Force and could be the chosen one. Meanwhile, a dormant Sith make his presence felt.  Written &#x26; directed by George Lucas, the very first mistake he made was that he completely forgot who the target audience of his prequel trilogy really was. It was the people who made Star Wars such a groundbreaking revolution of its time, who in the passing years had grown up a little, and were probably expecting a slightly more mature take after waiting for so long. What Lucas churns out instead is an incredibly juvenile turd filled with annoying characters &#x26; reckless CGI.  Lucas spent decades waiting for the filmmaking technology to advance to his required level in order to realise his prequel trilogy on film canvas as per his vision yet if he&#x27;d spent even a fraction of that time in refining the script &#x26; characters, The Phantom Menace would&#x27;ve been a much decent movie. Just about nothing works here and what makes it even more torturous to sit through is the annoying set of characters inhabiting it. The plot is pretty much absent &#x26; filled with people you just don&#x27;t give a damn about.  Its visual effects may have been a state-of-the-art stuff at its time of release but it has only deteriorated over the years and now it looks plainly rubbish. Nearly every sequence is filled with weird looking creatures for Lucas goes horribly smug about his half-assed imagination here but his first feature in over two decades is too childish &#x26; cartoonish to have any merit. Its 133 minutes of runtime isn&#x27;t justified either for the whole movie is just one lame segment after another and every attempt at humour simply falls apart.  And then there&#x27;s this cast of Liam Neeson, Ewan McGregor, Natalie Portman &#x26; others who deliver truly hollow performances. Although acting never was this franchise&#x27;s strongest suit, it&#x27;s a shame to see such actors playing such empty, absurd characters. The only reason for the prequel trilogy to exist, as per Lucas, was to provide a backstory to the original trilogy&#x27;s most iconic figure while the characters its fans actually fell in love with and wanted to see more of are completely sidelined or absent, which doesn&#x27;t help its cause.  On an overall scale, Star Wars: Episode I &#x96; The Phantom Menace will always be memorable for the priceless reaction it evoked from the die-hard fans of the original Star Wars trilogy. To see their long wait being rewarded with such an abhorrent, nauseating &#x26; disgusting chapter is undoubtedly hilarious but for someone who was never a fan of this franchise, movies don&#x27;t get anymore cringeworthy than this. Filled with nothing but garbage, the only watchable scene in The Phantom Menace is that brief lightsaber duel near the end. Other than that, it&#x27;s just third-degree torture."
"It&#x27;s fashionable to bash this movie... and it does give you a lot of things to do so. However; let&#x27;s try to be positive: - It&#x27;s actually cool to meet the Jedi Council and the characters are mostly very strong. Qi Gong Jin / Liam Neeson is a very good Jedi indeed. - Darth Maul; the last lightsaber battle and some part of the last fight scene are very enjoyable indeed. - George Lucas going very far in his imagination, adding lots of new settings, races, designs etc etc. The excitement is present  BUT BUT BUT - Jar Jar is really the most annoying character ever. Anakin a close second - The humor just falls flat. Flat out sucks actually. - &#x22;Too digital&#x22;. Some parts look like a video game. - Very convoluted: too much politics, too complicated.   So yeah, overall, it&#x27;s an annoying sci if movie with some good stuff. Still is below average. As a Star Wars movie... it doesn&#x27;t deliver."
"The Phantom Menace was atrocious. It was a pain to sit through the duration of the movie which was just a little over 2 hours. George Lucas returned as the director previously having directed the first movie of Star Wars, i.e, A New Hope. He was simply not up to the task and made some terrible choices in this movie. There are certain creatures who are weirdly shaped and talk even more strangely and I won&#x27;t even bother to look up to know what they are actually called. This was an unnecessary addition which did not help in moving the story forward and only managed to irritate the viewers. The reason for the long duration between the last Star Wars movie to the current one was because George Lucas didn&#x27;t believe that the special effects technology had advanced enough to fulfill the vision that he had for this movie. There was nothing groundbreaking about the special effects. Frankly, the visual effects of the original trilogy was far more original and well-implemented than what they achieved in this movie. The acting was below par despite having a talented cast comprising of Natalie Portman, Liam Neeson and Ewan McGregor. The movie focuses on a young Anakin Skywalker as he is spotted by the Jedi Knights and is selected to be trained.   The movie is a complete snooze-fest and I wouldn&#x27;t have bothered on watching this if it wasn&#x27;t for the Episode VII which is going to come out later this movie. Avoid this movie if you can as it did not do much to move the plot forward."
"Hello, I am an original spectator of Star Wars theatrical d&#xE9;but in Portugal, having 4 years old, raining heavily in December it was close to my birthday, it was Christmas. Neither I have seen anything that spectacular nor the world, or my father the one that lead me to this memorial day... In terms of space fantasy of course. I saw it at least 20 times at cinemas. I&#x27;m mentioning it because I had severe asthma attacks and had to leave the theatre at some point, by the excitement and emotional attachment. Well, ultimately my parents pushed me into it. They were feeling also as kids and they were establishing a bridge of communication with their son compensating the gap between us, perhaps the world was finally taking a break, a deep breath from previous political disasters which like a wave reached all corners of the world. I deeply felt the 70s and the beginning of 80s were the best times of my life. There was hope, I felt it.   No. This is not a parents guide, neither vanity, neither morality, it&#x27;s just to simply state that I never got tired of seeing Star Wars despite all, not even by now, all the genuine three. And I have an eye for films, don&#x27;t ask me specifically why or in what, but boy I can tell if a film is a hoax or not.  By now I don&#x27;t have any problems confessing my fan crimes, transformed myself as a Star Wars atheist. They begun with &#x22;Empire Strikes Back&#x22;, somehow with its special effects. Neither the tauntauns or the AT-AT walkers frame to frame animation caught my interest... something was changing, perhaps an excessive preoccupation to exceed everything, a megalomania quest... but Master Yoda did it, the psychological cave did and Freudian Vader did also. I forget my inner thoughts, the hope persisted and I sincerely cried when the Jedi returned, sacrificing himself for his son. I still do considering the ascension to Vader&#x27;s redemption one of the best scenes in Star Wars universe. I was being taught to never lost hope for Darth Vader, my anti-hero, the revolted anger the one that suffered in silence, myself as a child. Somehow I always knew Vader wasn&#x27;t bad but a victim and a pawn of circumstances, I was being Luke Skywalker in heart, excusing my family scars giving pause to guilt. Perhaps Star Wars compensated my lacking of a familiar functional structure. I saw &#x22;THX 1138&#x22; definitely acknowledging that Star Wars saga was encrypted with philosophy, mythology and psychology, it was juicy and complex, my inner attachment wasn&#x27;t in vain. I was delirious. Lucas was indeed my mentor. When I was lost, Star Wars was my anchor, I think it was also Luca&#x27;s.  The &#x22;Ewok Adventure&#x22; was released after &#x22;Return of the Jedi&#x22;, making me suspecting at that time that something wasn&#x27;t going right, something disturbing the force, something paradoxical. The same director created both the trilogy and this... nonsense. How could it be? I understood by then that a film was composed by many pieces, Lucas only directed Star Wars IV in Star Wars first trilogy. If there weren&#x27;t many key factors as its perfect edition (Lucas&#x27;s wife included) Star Wars would be a flop. Lucas didn&#x27;t compose the music, neither illustrated his imagination, nor put to effort the realistic special effects, or voiced Darth Vader, created the laser sound effects, C3-P0&#x27;s soul, R2D2&#x27;s bips and independent personality, Chewbaka&#x27;s corporal expression, Yoda&#x27;s puppeteering, Vader&#x27;s breeding, Han Solo&#x27;s acting, Luke&#x27;s commitment, Ben Kenobi&#x27;s humongous acting posture... and so forth. After that &#x22;Return of the Jedi&#x22; was re-released in theatres. I thought good, perhaps Lucas is creating the first 3. I noticed the credits were slightly modified, I didn&#x27;t understand why.  When I picked a look at some samples of the new remastered trilogy in 1997, I felt the same strange feeling when facing &#x22;The Ewok Adventure&#x22;, something wasn&#x27;t right again. Something wasn&#x27;t definitely right when the originals were shadowed from the market. My stomach got funny just by thinking Lucas was erasing and changing history, just by wondering Lucas was acting as the emperor of his appropriated empire. I couldn&#x27;t believe Lucas was spoiling his own work... or indeed it was exclusively the fruits of his only own work? There was a disturbance in my force when I started to understand there were many many people involved allowing Star Wars to be a success as I discovered the beautiful art of Ralph McQuarrie. I started my own quest in search of the hidden crucial elements. But I couldn&#x27;t betray my master, not in a Sith way. I kept the hope... until I sceptically saw &#x22;The Phantom&#x27;s Menace&#x22;. Coincidentally cutting relations with my father at a contemporary time. Wished he was at this d&#xE9;but as he was in the first time.  For 30 years I expected to see a complex intricate dark transformation of Darth Vader, to understand why there were so many parallels in this Father and Son Freudian story, reflected on my own family relation. Why one should follow the Jedi way expressed on the artist&#x27;s work, the sequel of his philosophical pursuit of a better world, a better democracy, a recycled expression of Luca&#x27;s principles? All of it has been betrayed for economical interests, antagonizing the code of the good ones, effectively extinguishing the Jedi order, showing that indeed Society has a Sith partnership and the empire hides in pseudo principles absorbing everything to itself. Perhaps he&#x27;ll return as a Jedi, but I already lost my hope. Jedi fans as myself became orphans of a pseudo world antagonistic to a raw cruel reality. The Jedi order was betrayed and slaughtered by its innocence and naivety, Lucas abandoned his own therapy, his own parallels to the world he&#x27;d created, his idealism now transformed into cynicism, the tool of the survivors, the preachers."
"Let&#x27;s face it. Star Wars has officially became a children&#x27;s film. We true Star Wars fans have to suffer because there are a few eight-year-old brats in the audience. Where do I start. Jar Jar Binks, just a scam to get kids under the age of five to watch the movie. He doesn&#x27;t add really anything to the movie accept stupidity. And Anikan, Lucas had to go and make the future Dark Lord of the Sith a soccer playing brat. And Suebulba, All they had to do is put a white t-shirt and leather jacket on him, slick his hair back, and put a pack of smokes in his shirt sleeve. That would have made it fine. Obi-Wan being the wise old hermit that he is should have more lines than &#x22;yes master&#x22;. The other wise old hermit that we new as Yoda is now a bumbling know-it-all. At least Samuel L. Jackson gave a great portrayal of Mace Windu. Darth Maul should have been seen more than a ten minute lightsaber battle (which was amazing). Qui-Gon is a very wise Jedi but takes up too much of Obi-Wan&#x27;s screen time. Viceroy Gunray and his partner are (very) bad Chinese imitations. Too many bad guys for one movie. I think the total number of them is five. That&#x27;s just too many. And how obvious is Lucas making it that Senetor Papatine is going to be the Emporor.  This movie is okay but Lucas has gone mad with the CGI. I can understand that he loves being able to use it but almost every other character is computer generated. Back in the Original Trilogy Lucas used real people in very convincing costumes, puppets, stop-motion animation, and models that were all hand built. IF was good then than why couldn&#x27;t it be good now.  THis movie is good but lacks the greatness of the Original Trilogy."
"I tried watching this again recently. Once again I failed to complete it. Was it the complex plot, the dense psychological nuances that defeated me? Surprisingly not. It was the cardboard producing values with many millions of dollars of special effects behind it. There was so much excitement. A New Star Was 20 years after the original and then the biggest disappointment in history of film.  To summarise: dialogue awful, plotting dreadful, directing also meaningless. There have been criticism of characters presenting racial or ethnic stereotypes. That does appear to be true among the CGI cast. And everyone hates Binks except he is one character that is less irritating than when it was released.  The actors like Liam Neeson emerge with some integrity from the lifeless dialogue except Natalie Portman&#x27;s Padme is too stilted much of th time. It may have been deliberate to deliver lines as flatly as possible when she&#x27;s in her regalia, probably a joke about the decoy. But the flatness does grate as it is lifeless. Out of her royal garb and in fighting costume she comes far more to life.  1 for the acting, 1 for the light sabre battle."
"I received the complete sage on Blu-Ray for Christmas. My wife has never seen the prequels, so we sat down and watched Episode I.  Honestly, it was every bit as dreadful as I recalled. But having my wife there gave it fresh perspective. The CGI was largely overdone. To the point where the battles and landscape look worse than a Pixar movie. And no offense to Pixar, because they look good.  All child actors are horrendous. Anakin was abysmal. The overuse of the word &#x22;Yippee&#x22; boggles my mind. At some point someone had to review the film and conclude Anakin was horrible. I suspect no one had the guts to tell Lucas.  Jar Jar... Well, we know about him and how detrimental he was.  The two headed announcer alien complete with NASCAR commentator voice sums up everything wrong with this movie. Lucas created a CGI bonanza geared towards kids of the late 1990s. He should have stuck with what he did in the originals. A gritty universe lacking chrome and shiny clean object.  The story line was just plain boring. Trade federations, occupations. Dull. Dull. Dull. No whimsy of the originals.  That being said, there are some good things. Liam Neeson and Ewen Macgregor are excellent. The Darth Maul character played by Ray Park was awesome. However, Darth Maul is sadly underused. Ian MacDiarmid as Sidious/Chancellor Palpatine is as good as ever.  Sadly, the good doesn&#x27;t nearly outweigh the bad and I am left wishing these were never made. Perhaps Disney can make new prequels and relegate these to non-canon."
"Let&#x27;s face the awful truth. You don&#x27;t even need to watch the film to see what is going on. You can just listen to - or for that matter just read the lyrics of - Weird Al Yankovic&#x27;s &#x22;The Saga Begins&#x22; and you have seen the movie. Besides impressive special effects and good acting from a stellar cast there is nothing to see here people, move along.I say good acting because it is not the cast&#x27;s fault they were given mundane dialogue and thus portrayed characters I just did not care about. The only interesting idea brought up here not brought up in the original trilogy is that fear in sufficient amounts is necessary for survival, but in excess it can destroy a person. And that it is possible for a nine year old boy to hit on a fourteen year old girl and have a shot AFTER puberty. That&#x27;s it, that&#x27;s all. It&#x27;s not a menace, but this film is definitely a phantom of the first two Star Wars films and maybe even of the third, which was also a step down in quality in my humble opinion."
"well i went to see the 3-d version of this last night just so i could see the 2 parts that i like.was it worth it?nope!this is so CRAPPY in so many ways were should i start.lets start with Jake Lloyd,that kids performance was one the worst ever.the god awful dialog did not help him much, but that kid is hard to watch.everybody says Lucas does not how to get what he wants out of his actors.but one of his best friends is Spielberg,make a call for funk sakes.however Lloyd was not alone in the poor acting category.just about everybody was bad with maybe an exception going to Watt. one of the things that made the first movies so effective is that they had heart .these new movies feel like there six feet under from the start.you care for absolutely nothing that is going on,or anybody.and one of the many reason for this is you don&#x27;t put comedy in the middle of a life or death situation.it kills all the emotion.just imagine the three stooges running up the beach in saving private Ryan.and why does Lucas think that we want to hear the same dialog from the earlier films over and over?&#x22;that crap drives me nuts&#x22; said the pirate with steering wheel between his legs.jeez! i could go on and on, and i think i will. the 3-d,what 3-d it was barely noticeable."
"Star Wars - The Phantom Menace  Things to like about the original Star Wars trilogy:  1.  Simple yet imaginative plot. 2.  Interesting and engaging characters. 3.  Great special effects.  Things to like about The Phantom Menace:  1.  Great special effects.  I mean, COME ON!!  The original movies were pretty stupid, I have to admit, but they were fun-stupid.  The new film is just DULL.  And the plot is a big problem.  For a start we have a &quot;Trade Federation&quot;.  This is not nearly as scary as an &quot;Evil Empire&quot;, I'm sorry but it just isn't.  &quot;Yikes!  Here come the delegates from the Evil Trade Federation!!!&quot;  See?!?  It just doesn't work.  It's like &quot;Beware the dreaded Agriculture Commission!!&quot; or something.    The plot is supposed to be for kids, but unfortunately it seems to have quite a high &quot;Daddy?  Who are they/What's going on?&quot; quotient.  Certainly the kids in the audience with me had no idea.  Especially as to who Queen Amidala actually was (towards the end it was a bit like that scene from &quot;Spartacus&quot; - &quot;I'm Queen Amidala&quot;, &quot;No I'M Queen Amidala!!&quot; etc etc...)  Then we have the characters.  Or rather we don't because NO-ONE in this film HAS any character.  I think the problem is that George Lucas thinks that when people become Learned and Wise they also become members of the Incredibly Boring Society.  Kind of like Luke Skywalker in &quot;Return of the Jedi&quot;.  When Luke became a Jedi knight he suddenly became &quot;Enigmatic&quot; for which we can read &quot;Dull and Awful&quot;.  I thought this was merely down to bad acting on Mark Hamill's part in Jedi, but no - because Liam and Ewan are JUST as &quot;Enigmatic&quot; in this new film.  At certain parts in the movie I thought I spotted Ewan's natural exuberance bubbling over, but at those points George obviously yelled &quot;Cut!!!&quot; and poked Ewan with his directorial cattle prod.  The end result is that both actors look like they have had their charisma surgically removed.  Then there's Queen Amidala.  She is a very different kind of royalty to Princess Leia who was kind of spunky.  Amidala is &quot;Regal&quot;.  Unfortunately George ALSO equates &quot;Regal&quot; with &quot;Dull and Awful&quot;.  Also she seems to have gone to the same finishing school as Queen Elizabeth and as such delivers all her lines with the same passion.  Then we have the kid.  Having small children in films is always a dangerous move.  It's not their fault, they are just by nature irritating creatures who can't act (with the exception of Bart Simpson).  Eventually CGI will have improved to the state where all children will be played by far more charismatic special effects, but for the moment George was lumbered with an Annakin Skywalker with the emotional range of a turnip.  See the scene where he was separated from his mother?  Now if he had been a NORMAL child, he would have done that whole chest-heaving-snot-coming-out-of-the-nose-bawling thing.  But he doesn't.  He didn't even look close to being dischuffed, the scene was completely bungled.  Yes, yes, I know he's not a normal child - he's got a high medichlorien count or something (I think it's a bit like cholesterol) and he's causing a &quot;divergence in the force&quot; - but all the same, it's hard to care for young Anni.  On to Jar-Jar.  A lot of people hate this character, and I was surprised I didn't really.  It's not that he isn't annoying, just that he isn't unbearable either.  I mean, C3PO was a lot worse.  (I have my own theories as to what the &quot;PO&quot; in his name stands for).  Jar-jar is there for the kiddies, and as such probably does quite a good job.  Is there any point spending much time on Darth Maul?  I don't think so.  George Lucas didn't.  The main problem with this movie is that if the characters are not interesting, we don't really care about them.  If we don't care about them, we don't really care when they are in danger.  If we don't care when they are in danger there is no sense of relief when things work out.  There is no emotional wallop in this movie like there was in &quot;Jedi&quot; or &quot;Star Wars&quot; when the Death Stars blew up.  The only emotional release I felt was when the credits rolled and I knew FINALLY that the thing was over.  p.s.  Did I mention the special effects?  They're ever so impressive."
Star Wars Episode 1 the phantom menace is one the the worst movies ever made for many reasons.  Firstly it does not make sense at all.There is no character development it is disappointing to the Star Wars fans and movie fans in general.You can not buy that anakin is going to become Darth Vader at all he just comes off as a annoying.  The Podrace was boring when you know anakin is going to win.Jar Jar was supposed to be a friend instead he comes off as a racial character saying that Lucas cannot write a story and it is a letdown as he wrote the classic trilogy witch can be viewed as its own movie but with the prequels there is no 12 hour movie instead watch 4-6 and stop there.
"honestly, i don&#x27;t know where to start, im currently watching this movie now on my split screen while im typing this, thats how much i am bored.  1.The acting is soo bad &#x26; dull it looks like an acting project made by a university student, considering its a multi million project i&#x27;d say its totally a waste of money. Its really a shocking considering natalie portman the gal who has been considered a really good actor in Leon the professional delivered an awful performance.  2. The plot is soo boring it makes me think i can do it better. end of story.  3. This is my first star wars movie, i haven&#x27;t watch episode 4, 5, and 6 and i heard its really good. but so far in episode 1 i still cant see the hype."
"I first saw this movie when I was about 9 years old and I loved it. It was Star Wars! I loved the action, I thought Jar Jar stepping in poop was hilarious, but when I watch this again when I&#x27;m older, I&#x27;m amazed on how much my opinion changed. This movie is piece of Gungan excrement. Allow me to explain the top 5 reasons Episode I stunk. If I did all the reasons, this review would be far too long.  #5. The Force is caused by Midi-chlorians. Having The Force be caused by Midi-chlorians makes no sense at all. It completely destroys all of what Master Yoda taught Luke Skywalker in the Original Trilogy, which was to feel The Force around you. No reference to Midi-chlorians in the OT and to have them suddenly mentioned in Episode I makes no sense at all. There is no explanation on exactly how Midi-Chlorians give us The Force. After all, this is the first movie chronologically, shouldn&#x27;t it EXPLAIN things?  #4. Queen Amidala and her cronies. Ohhh boy. There is a reason &#x22;The Phantom Menace&#x22; didn&#x27;t win an Oscar for best make up. WHY did they have to give her all these weird hair-dos? Were they trying to mimic Leia&#x27;s famous cinnamon roll hair styles from the OT? If they were, it was a terrible idea because, although classic, Leia&#x27;s hair was the worst part of the OT. All in all, giving Amidala and her friends insane hair styles doesn&#x27;t necessarily make the movie BAD, it just makes it kind of embarrassing to watch and awkward in an odd sort of way. Maybe this is just me.  #3. Jar Jar Binks. Haven&#x27;t we heard enough about him from other crying fan boys like me? Allow me to put in my two cents. I think the purpose of Jar Jar was to add comedy and lightheartedness to the movie. Jar Jar just ended up being a stupid flop. Since George Lucas seems to think that Star Wars wont pass from one generation to the next without making more and more movies, he added Jar Jar Binks to appeal to the nine year olds. Just like I was. And it worked.   #2. Council meetings galore!!!!!!!!!!!! AND MORE COUNCIL MEETINGS! HOORAY FOR COUNCIL MEETINGS! One or two brief Jedi Council scenes would have been fine. Any more then that, and it starts feeling like a Political Drama instead of a Star Wars movie. I mean seriously, do you need countless Jedi Council and Senate meetings to tell you whats going on? It might as well have been narrated by Jake Lloyd. Mace Windu could have been introduced in a much more exciting way, and we never even get to see Yoda fight. What is the point of having all these great characters introduce if we never even see them fight.  #1. Anakin Skywalker. What could possibly be worse than Jar Jar Binks and Council Meetings, you say? The answer is casting the future Darth Vader as a young boy. Why did Anakin have to be so young? Why couldn&#x27;t they make him about the same age as Luke in &#x22;A New Hope?&#x22; I don&#x27;t want to watch Darth Vader prance about saying &#x22;Yippee!!!&#x22; and &#x22;It&#x27;s working!! It&#x27;s working!!&#x22; and &#x22;Are you an angel?&#x22; and &#x22;Yippee!&#x22; again, after he finds out he is going to leave his planet, his mother, C-3PO (who I have a hard time believing was built by Anakin) to go with a stranger he only met a day ago. Anakin bro, you are never going to see your mom again. Don&#x27;t be a jerk about it and forget her 30 seconds later. I mean after all, your mom IS a virgin and you are practically Jesus of the Star Wars universe, but that doesn&#x27;t automatically give you permission to hit on some girl (Padame) who is supposed to look 14 but really looks 20.  There is much, much more I could say about Anakin Skywalker and this movie, and I hope you enjoyed this review. Please, check out my list on how Episode 7 should be cast, if the original actors aren&#x27;t brought back. I would really appreciate it!  Link to my list: http://www.IMDb.com/list/BFLmAMbRcfU/"
"Where does a piece like this come from? I just watched it again last night after about 2 years off. The little Greedo looking character says, &quot;Aww you're so funny Ani, he he.&quot; How could the producers watch this without cringing? The little girl beside mini-greedo is wearing braces!!! Also, why is Yoda cross-eyed. I just watched Empire and ROTJ, Yoda was completely believable, he had so much character. In Episode I he has no character qualities at all, and you have no idea where he's looking! Also, how can they make Jabba's assistant (with the snake-deal around his neck) look nothing like the old one? Every second on Tatooine is worse than forgettable, I wouldn't mind forgettable, this is borderline offensive.  Save for the two Jedi this is probably the worst acted film in the history of cinema, I have no reservations declaring it as such. It gets the 2 rating because the lightsabre battle was fantastic."
"When The Phantom Menace came out it was probably the most hyped movie to that point in time, and rightfully so; the first Star Wars was great, The Empire Strikes Back was amazing and Return of The Jedi was good! However this movie did not live up to the hype at all. For years people loved this film and put it up there with the original trilogy, blinded by their own love of the first three. In time people realized that this film was not good at all from the boring plot about trade negotiations to the over the top tun of terrible CGI. Every thing that has to be said about this movie has already been said and I don&#x27;t have anything new to add to the table but hopefully this review will cause its current score on IMDb to go down."
"As someone who loves SF movies this saga was a must watch for me. I have already watched the old trilogy and apart from the stunning visual effects for that time i could not say that the first three movies were spectacular when it comes to story telling.   I respect that Lucas created almost all from nothing, but when you watch the movies without the hype you can see that there are a lot of flaws.  This movie is no exception. It is forced completely, mainly because we know what is going to happen latter, but it could have gone out far more believable. Everything seems bland, forced and without any emotion.  And if you want special effects, well, just watch The Matrix(it was made in the same year)."
"Star Wars Marathon Movie #1 (Keep in mind, I watched the anti-cheese edition, which got rid of the more cringe worthy parts of this movie. There is a full list of changes in the description of the video on YouTube)  The anti-cheese edition made the movie a little bit better by getting rid of the filler scenes and made all of the aliens speak an alien language with subtitles. This was great for getting rid of Jar Jar and making the Trade Federation guys not sound like whinny idiots.  The filler scenes that were removed made for a more interesting story and got rid of all of the fart jokes and horrible dialogue. The downside to this is that the filler scenes that were removed sometimes led to awkward transitions between scenes and an awkward pacing to the story.  Even with this edit, Star Wars 1 remains the worst of the series. The anti-cheese edit made it more enjoyable, but it still grew boring and dull. If you must watch Star Wars 1, watch the anti- cheese edit, otherwise skip it.  Damn this movie sucks, why was it even made?"
"I hate this movie, I really do. George Lucas squanders whatever talent and reputation that he had left on this god awful film that sadly has made one billion dollars. In the world&#x27;s defense, they did not know what they were getting into. The beginning of the film tells us that it is doomed from the start. Zero character development... Just light sabers. Hard to believe the previous installments were compelling. However, I can see what Lucas was trying to do. He was trying to find familiarity. He did it in the wrong thing, it is better to find familiarity in plot points and certain details, sadly he tried to find it in more lasting things, like characters. That is where surprisingly, where the film reaches its lows. He tries to make it an ensemble thing. In a film like this, that setup cannot work. He needed to give one character, and I do mean one character a focus, or a journey. You need to get attached to characters before they engage in risky situations, it will have more of an effect because your emotional effect resonates into making the characters go through real peril. This setup does not work, that&#x27;s why the film fails. The performances do not make this film better, not one bit. Liam Neeson and Ian McGregor give decent performances, but the real weak link is Jake Lloyd as Anakin Skywalker, and Ahamed Best as Jar Jar Binks. Both easily some of the worst performances from a child actor, and an actor in general I have ever seen. In Anakin&#x27;s case, he needed to be a teenager or a young adult, that will make more of the situations he goes through believable. But Jar Jar, I despised every waking moment, every dollar wasted through CGI, every second I heard his grinding, agonizing voice, the bottom line is that this character was not needed, ever, what were you thinking George? What were you thinking? There actually was something I liked from this film- Samuel L Jackson as a Jedi! Best casting ever, enough said. In the end, this is fortunately the lowest possible point in the prequel trilogy, if you saw it, stay as far away as possible."
"We had three fantastic Star Wars movies... A perfect trilogy... Until the prequels came! The kick-start for the new trilogy &#x22;The Phantom Menace&#x22; is a perfect example, of a movie which is made, so that the distributors can sell toys and video games. The pace and story is too slow and boring to keep a viewers attention, during a whole (not good) movie! There are some plot holes that aren&#x27;t even worth arguing about any more, the acting is rusten and feels so forced and the movie kinda&#x27; frustrates rather than intrigues! Despite all of this, the movie as a whole is not a downright disaster.  For some reason, George Lucas felt like everything in the prequels had to be connected. This clearly sets some rains on Lucas&#x27; storytelling, and that&#x27;s one of really the bad things about this movie. I think, if Lucas insisted to make a prequel and he set the plot during The Old Republic, things would have worked out better for Lucas, and most importantly... The movie! The menace is filled with bad acting, awkward scenes, bad one-liners, lame storytelling... But no intensity. But the visuals and sound are much better in this movie, and we still have John Williams&#x27; awesome score! That&#x27;s gotta&#x27; count for something, eh&#x27;?  I personally, don&#x27;t have many qualms about Jar Jar Binks, though. I agree, he is not a good character, but I do believe that he is part of an unfortunate core of bad lines and annoying scenes. But when I found out that the Razzies, gave him and award for worst supporting actor, I found it to be unfair. I never thought that the actor was a bad one! But whatever.  Lucas apparently felt, that he had to include a lot of political dialog, that people really understands or care about. I remember when I was like 5, and watching The Phantom Menace, I always thought that whole Corusant segment to be boring as hell! There is not one single scene that is worth understanding to the fully, and when you hear the line from Binks: &#x22;We-sa going hoooooooooome!&#x22;... You know Lucas thought this segment was pure crap.  The acting is lame and forced, so obviously the characters is nothing to be excited about, either. Like, when you know Anakin and Padme clearly has feelings for each other... A part from that creepy fact that he is like 10, and she is like 25... You would think that the character&#x27;s desire would be explained. But it&#x27;s not. Not at all. All we have is a lame and awkward conversation, filled with bad and wodden acting... And when a movie can suck the acting spirit out of both Liam Neeson and Ewan McGregor... Something is clearly wrong!  Despite all of this, Menace is still an OK movie, as a whole. If it hadn&#x27;t followed the earlier movies, it would be some kind of a lame but watchable B-movie on a lame channel, nobody watches. Still, a weak and lackluster entry to the Star Wars series, but watchable.  5/10"
"If you see this movie, even with the lowest expectation, you&#x27;ll still be deceived. This is how bad it is.  With one liners like : &#x22;I didn&#x27;t did it&#x22; and a bland scenario without any worthwhile dialogue, it&#x27;s a miracle your brain can survive the dumb trip.  From every perspective this is such a failure. Soundtrack is mediocre, 3d effects are over the top jammed pack and filled with useless stuff, the scenario plays on the level of a 10 years old perception of good vs evil, dialogues are dumb, fight scenes aren&#x27;t building up to a climax and are like circus presentations,the entire star wars universe now dresses like it&#x27;s Halloween, it goes on and on.  What this reveals is that it&#x27;s quite possible that it wasn&#x27;t Lucas that was responsible for the quality of the first Trilogy."
"What I&#x27;d like to see is a movie that portrays the tale of Darth Vader and some storm troopers hunting down a slaying Jedi masters one by one in heated battles to the death wherein Vader would lose more and more of his humanity(and human limbs)thus becoming &#x22;more machine than man&#x22;.I loved the original flicks dearly and after the prequels and the added footage I can&#x27;t even look at those any more.Anakin was poorly cast, the cast was poorly directed and all three movies(the prequels)absolutely lacked emotion.Thanks George! You giveth and you taketh away for what I once loved you have now ruined.Star wars had so much potential and now it&#x27;s all just toy commercials, 90 minute toy commercials. Build a set, go to a location , way too much blue screen in this movie.As much as they put into the fx they just didn&#x27;t feel as authentic as the originals. Hope, empire, and Jedi made you feel like it was all so real but the prequels all feel so phony, from the emotionless acting to the blue screen sets."
"When George Lucas was making his Star Wars film in 1976, he had two objectives. 1. Tell a story 2. Make 775 million dollars. Nobody expected the second one to come true, but it did. Star Wars broke industry records and to this day is one of the highest grossing films of all time. When George Lucas was making his 4th Star Wars film in 1998, he had two objectives. 1. Make 924 million dollars. 2. Tell a story. Notice the difference?  Somewhere along the line, George Lucas got has priorities reversed. Star Wars episode 1: The Phantom Menace should have been made with the same mindset as Star Wars episode 4: A New Hope. Unfortunately, Lucas has forgotten his roots as a filmmaker and is now a businessman. Episode 1 shoved as much childish crap into each frame so that the marketing division could appeal to the &#x22;dumb kid demographic&#x22;. In doing so Lucas has forgotten some basic points about his OWN FRANCHISE.  1. No villain. There is Darth Maul, I guess. He says one line, it was so clich&#xE9;d I forgot it immediately. There&#x27;s also the hooded dude who appears as a hologram, he&#x27;s obviously SPOILER WARNING and he doesn&#x27;t really do anything either. Also you don&#x27;t know what the bad guys want. How would blockading Naboo really achieve anything? There are other, easier ways SPOILER WARNING could get what he/she/it wants. It&#x27;s like Lucas wrote all these cool scenes about invasion and realized it had nothing to do with anything, so he tied it all up with something about the Sith&#x27;s evil plan five minutes before shooting was about to start. On another note, if the main opposition is a bunch of useless robots that the characters can squash like insects, there&#x27;s no tension. Throughout the whole film, all you do is question the actions of the characters, pointing out all the things they could have done to make the movie 20 minutes long.  2. Childish crap. People complain about Jar-Jar Binks and rightfully so. I think that Lucas had began to slip in Return when he added the Ewoks. Maybe his 14 year break was an attempt to quell the merchandising beast within, it is my belief that this strategy failed miserably. There are kids everywhere in this film and the droids act like clowns with laser guns.   3. Stupid Plot: I&#x27;ve already mentioned the stupid plot and I&#x27;m gonna mention it again. Stupid god damned plot. All of the characters act like they are being mind controlled by the racist federation characters. While people are directing their ire towards Jar-Jar, the real stereotypes are the slimy space slugs who practically regurgitate every negative Asian slur thinkable.  4.Intergalactic space politics: ZZZZZZZZ...If this film is trying so hard to appeal to kids, why do they insert space politics? How does it improve the film to have endless scenes of aliens talking policy? I don&#x27;t understand! This problem gets worse in the later films. So essentially you have Jar-Jar Binks and Ewoks on one end and on the other you have people getting their limbs amputated, genocide, child murder and people being roasted alive in screaming limbless agony.  The good things: 1. Liam Neeson: This is probably the only reason I gave this film anything other than 1 star, he is truly the best character of the prequel trilogy and even with the terrible script he still exudes charisma.   2.Amazing visuals: All things considered, the film is very good looking, I know this is probably to appeal to kids but if I had to give Lucas a grade based only on style: 10/10. Add in everything else: 3/10"
"First of the prequel trilogy to the monster hit original trilogy made a lot of money but was a distinct disappointment with most fans, having a storyline that was much too thin, though ambitious. Jar Jar Binks is a silly character, what more needs to be said? This does have a fine cast though, especially Liam Neeson as Obi-Wan&#x27;s mentor, who is the real backbone to the film,; pity not much is revealed about his own personal story. Ewan McGregor is believable as a much younger version of Obi-Wan, and does the role originated by Sir Alec Guiness proud, along with Natalie Portman as Queen Amedalia.  Action is plentiful, but that pod race goes on too long. Not the best start for the trilogy, but things would improve!"
"It's almost impossible to set aside the expectations of what this film could've been.  I'm as big of a fan as there is of the original trilogy.  I loved the characters, the look, the pacing, the sense of wonder, and endless hours of thought that must have gone into the writing.  They were simple, clear, and as effective as sci-fi fantasy can be.  Scenes rarely felt recycled, and they usually concluded taking a surprising twist you didn't expect.. i.e. Luke's defeat of the Rancor monster by closing the gate over him, Luke cutting off the front of a Speeder bike, sending the rider twirling about, etc.  We were entering worlds through the eyes of characters who were more or less fleshed out, and in every scene, there's was something clever.  This cannot be said of the Phantom Menace.  As much as I want to call Phantom Menace the worst film of all time, it's really not fair to.  It's just an okay movie in my opinion, and the opinion of MANY.   Everything on screen is basically something we've seen before. Whether it's battle droids ala Terminator 2, or a pod race ala Jedi meets Ben Hur, but somehow still lacks excitement.  A scene of Phantom might go the following way:  battle droids shoot lazers at Obi-wan.  He runs away. Whereas think of an escape scenario in EMPIRE STRIKES BACK.  Remember the scene where Han Solo was trying to escape from the imperial cruiser.  First there was an unexpected flight through a meteor shower, then landing inside the belly of a creature, the landing on top of the cruiser they were following.  That was wonderful clever, well thought out writing.  Phantom writing is just so routine and uncreative.  The Phantom menace storyline is actually very complicated.  If I understood it right, two jedis are sent to negotiate a peace treaty between a petty band of merchants who have formed a blockade over a planet, but they're really being backed by renegade element (Darth Sideous) in the galactic senate.  Rather than cave in, the Jedis are attacked and  flee to the neighboring planet as it's attacked by the invading Phantom Menace (trade federation).  They befriend a sea creature who looks like a cartoon, and attempt to involve his underwater friends into .... yada yada yada.  The story is extremely muddled.  It's not clean.  It ultimately feels like it's about.... nothing.   How about... a nice clean, direct, effect storyline, just like each installment the original trilogy.  Let's analyze... A NEW HOPE, it's the story of a farm boy who aspires for something more, leaving his home behind and embarking in a mission to rescue a princess from the clutches of a power villain who's the threat to freedom to the know galaxy. He saves the princess, and defeats the villain.  There you go, a simple, effective storyline.  The layers, characterization, and magic, etc. is what you add to that clean story concept.  But at the heart of any strong story, the spine exists.  Lucas spent years writing the original, and he made every element as clear as could be.  So, imagine the Phantom Menace was the following:  A noble Jedi sets forth to defeat what he believes is a threat to the galaxy, only to discover that the villain was set forth by his own mentor. He defeats the villain, but not his mentor, and the movement known as the empire begins.  So many possibilities.  So many wondrous worlds never visited.  So many characters under, or just not developed at all.  Most of the actors spoke their lines as though they didn't know what the hell they were talking about.  And then on top of that, the look of the film was just so... blah. I'll take the ships, weapons, vehicles, architecture of the originals any day.  I can accept this film as an experiment.  And had it been an ABC movie of the week entitled, BEFORE THE WARS, I'd like it a heck of a lot more.  But as is, it defames the originals.  &gt;"
"I recently went back and watched the complete Star Wars saga, and well I regret watching this load of crap for the 2nd time! It&#x27;s much worse then I remember Jar-Jar, Jake Lioyds acting and the end battle! The battle between Qui-gon Jinn &#x26; Obi-Wan kenobi fighting the evil sith Darth Maul was &#x22; Cut &#x22; to short! I remember it being much longer and that was the only reason I wasted 2 whole hours of my life! And seeing Jake Lioyd try to act was unbearable, I will never take Darth Vader serious again! Terrible movie, just terrible if you skip this one you won&#x27;t miss anything!  P.S. The plot was all over the place and I couldn&#x27;t follow any of it!"
"I normally watch a movie a few times, then review. With this mess of a movie, i watched it only 2 times. EXACTLY 2 TIMES. Thats how much i hate George Lucas for making living death to the Star Wars films. I wish Jar Jar Binks could die, i wish George didn&#x27;t choose Jake Lloyd for this, I WISH THESE FILMS HAD ACTUAL CHARACTERS AND ACTORS!! They are bland as anything. Darth Maul, Obi-Wan and Qui-Gon are the only Saviour&#x27;s of the movie. Ewan McGregor delivers an OK performance, Liam Neeson as Qui-Gon is spectacular and Darth Mauls actor is very good. The Music is stunning, but not good enough, the Lightsaber fights are great and character development............ i have said enough. OK EVEN THE HOBBIT UNEXPECTED JOIRNEY IS BETTER THAN THIS PILE OF POO JAR JAR STEPPED INTO!! Should i even say anything about Anakin&#x27;s most corniest and most idiotic line, &#x27;are you an angel?&#x27;. Thats what he said to Padm&#xE9; Amidala AND SHE IS LIKE 17 IN THIS MOVIE!! ANAKIN IS 9 OR 10!! I have had enough and i give this a 4/10"
"...but I still wanted to express my own feelings about this movie. Phantom Menace is like a cancerous tissue you just have to keep studying, because every time you do, you find a new cancer. I didn&#x27;t even understand, at first, that Phantom Menace has cancer all over it. I just thought it was a somewhat disappointing movie about space politics, cartoon kangaroos, a nice end battle with lightsabers and a great score. Now I&#x27;m sure that not only does it have cancer, but it also IS cancer.  The denial was strong at first. There&#x27;s a guy called Obi-Wan, there&#x27;s a kid called Anakin, there are lightsabers, there is the music of John Williams, George Lucas made it...this is Star Wars! And if it&#x27;s Star Wars, it can&#x27;t be that bad, right? Then, after the years went by, I had watched the original trilogy many more times and started to make comparisons. Granted, Lucas spread his cancer all over the original trilogy too, but he couldn&#x27;t kill the greatness of those movies. The greatness is still there, even if it is covered by digital feces, horrible changes and all sorts of nonsensical crap. The original trilogy had heart. I actually cared about those people! They had real emotions! I cared about what was happening! I could tell you a reason for almost everything that happened in those movies. I cannot tell you a single reason why anything happened in Phantom Menace.  Phantom Menace is written by a child pretending to be a writer. If you manage to get your head out of the cloudy box of apathy and boredom this movie tries to keep you in, you&#x27;ll notice that absolutely nothing about Phantom Menace&#x27;s space politics make sense. Try it, I dare you. Try to think about the space politics. If you manage to do it without bleeding from your face and skull, you are truly a hero. And since the space politics are the reason for everything that is happening, the movie has already lost. It lost before it even tried.  Phantom Menace tries to set things up that eventually lead to episode IV: A New Hope, so everything is crammed in there, and none of it works individually or together. The force is explained by midi-chlorians (a form of space cancer caused by shitty screen writing), which in turn are the reason Anakin even gets noticed. We even got C-3PO and R2D2. Why? Probably just that you wouldn&#x27;t notice how bad the movie is, when it throws familiar faces and names at you. Or to sell toys. Probably the toys.  Jar-Jar Binks, the unfunny space kangaroo, is a red herring. He is a horrible character and deserving of all hate and several mutilations, but if you take him out of the movie, the movie doesn&#x27;t get any better. At least he made me feel something, even if it was rage and disappointment. Like so many other things in this movie, Jar-Jar Binks is there to distract you so you wouldn&#x27;t notice the structure of the movie itself. Jar-Jar Binks is Podracing in a character form: absolutely meaningless crap with rabbit ears.  I feel bad for several people. I feel bad for the kid who plays Anakin. He is horrible, but someone should&#x27;ve stopped him. He is not to blame for the mess he was in. I feel bad for the main actors too, who had nothing to work with but miles of green screen and disinterested directing from George Lucas. It&#x27;s telling of Liam Neeson&#x27;s charisma, that I managed to like him, even though he was given horrible lines, horrible directing and horrible script. Pretty much everyone else came out flat.  But most of all: I feel bad for the people who saw this. I feel bad for the people who are too young to never have seen the original trilogy in its theatrical glory without the crappy changes Lucas made when this movie was released. I feel bad for the people who got a passionless piece of glimmering digital crap instead of a real movie from a franchise they loved. George Lucas, once a rogue filmmaker, had turned into a bored businessman. This is the result.  Is there anything good in Phantom Menace? Well, yes. I did like the end battle. Too much choreography and too little feeling, but it&#x27;s still cool. Darth Maul has potential as a bad guy, even though eventually he is wasted. The music is excellent, as well as much of the sound department. I liked Liam Neeson, but just because he&#x27;s Liam Neeson. His character though, in the end, was as useless and contrived as everything else in these prequels.  Check out RedLetterMedia&#x27;s Plinkett Reviews of the prequel trilogy if you already haven&#x27;t. They&#x27;re gold. Also, check out the Despecialized Edition of the original trilogy. Some people made their own HD cuts of the original movies, taking out the changes Lucas forced on us in 1997. It&#x27;s worth it. Get it, if not for yourself, then at least for your kids. Let them see the movie magic from 1977 to 1983.  George, you can&#x27;t win. You once made a movie we all love. Stop trying to kill it. Please get help. I&#x27;m glad you don&#x27;t hold the rights to the franchise anymore. Disney and Fox, please do the right thing and release the theaterical versions for the public. I don&#x27;t question that you are companies full of bored businessmen and/or aliens too, but just for once, do something human to make us think otherwise. Please."
"Yesterday for the first time since 10 years I tried to watch Phantom Menace and again I turned off my DVD with disgust. Clearly this is one of the movies that haven&#x27;t passed the test of time - the prequels, and that one in particular, are a giant kitsch and once you start looking beyond giant layers of CGI you shake your head in sad contempt. Phantom Menace fails both as a movie - part of the defined art - and as an addition to Star Wars Universe.  Let&#x27;s say categorically that Star Wars are not George Lucas and his movies anymore. George Lucas may have created Star Wars like Homer created Illiad, but like Illiad, it started living its own life long time ago. It doesn&#x27;t matter who owns the franchise - Star Wars Universe became a living being and a modern myth fueling the imagination of people around the world. It is not just a movie anymore, although it started as a movie - it is much greater entity than that. Star Wars outgrew Lucas and in the end he was like a child tinkering with a unexpected creation in a silly way.  Books, comics, games and movies are only entry tickets to that wide universe and people keep buying them because they crave contact with it. And over the years Star Wars benefited from many great stories told in comics or games, stories that gave much us better contact than Lucas and his prequels...  Lucasfilm keep telling that only the movies are a true source of Star Wars, that what Lucas personally invents is more important than work of many writers and artists often more talented than him... I do not agree with all that. This is only the opinion of Lucasfilm and one could ask: why then they had released all that EU material in the first place? When TPM appeared in theaters I hoped it will give me as much epic storytelling and heroism as Expanded Universe... but it never came close to even standard EU products which was humiliating to Lucas. In fact, Lucas plundered EU heavily and with complete disregard when making TPM but ended with a very mediocre movie.  The dialogs were naive and annoying, the acting was wooden, the action scenes would be OK in 1940s - but not very artistic for our time, computer monsters were awfully rubber-like and unconvincing, general plot was not epic at all. After watching it I couldn&#x27;t care less about Star Wars - had I not been a regular fan. But had my first ever contact with Star Wars came through TPM - I would certainly never had became one.  When I compare any of the prequels with a sci-fi masterpiece that Dark Knight Rises is (although I am not a Batman fan), with its masterful dialogs, great tension and drama delivered by actors, excellent composition I feel ashamed as a Star Wars Fan that We ended with such incredible crap instead of epic movie like Dark Knight is. I couldn&#x27;t care less about storyline - but the way Dark Knight delivers that storyline is masterful. Now watch TPM again and all you find is contempt...  It would be hard to expect that Star Wars will remain consistent and immune to spirit of time or generational change: but it does not explain why we have to endure bad movie or uninteresting story. Where Lucas has failed KOTOR video game somehow embodied Star Wars mythical spirit and stole the show.  Classic Trilogy created in gray and boring 1980s was a window to another universe - it had a magic and mythical undertone. But prequels are just a CGI crap without any deep content. It seemed as in Lucas tried to get his revenge on Star Wars for growing too big and living its own existence for all these years he remained passive. The TPM is so incredibly BAD movie - especially when you compare it with best creations of Expanded Universe - that you cannot help but wonder if Lucas indeed was subconsciously trying to sabotage his own child.  I am not a fanatic of Classic trilogy and enjoyed some of the changes Lucas made to it, but regardless of how appeased I try to be toward the TPM I cannot not see how it destroys the Star Wars magic: Jedi are bunch of arrogant catholic-like monks, Force is just a bacteria in your blood, Anakin is a whiny version of Jesus and despite becoming a mass-murderer he is made by Lucas to be a true hero of six movies - not Luke - ruining the mythological archetype of Classic Trilogy which was basically a Hero&#x27;s Journey.  The question is: why should I care about Prequels at all? Being a hardcore fan I am of opinion that best and most powerful stories ever delivered by Star Wars Universe are Tales of the Jedi comics and KOTOR video games. It is not even the question if they equal Classic Trilogy, but does the Classic Trilogy equals them. Knights of the Old Republic video game alone is so perfect epic story and has so likable characters full of depth and convincing visuals, that frankly, after playing you do not care that much about the movies anymore.  Similarly Tales of the Jedi which are basically the saga of Nomi Sunrider and her heroic journey beat the crap out of any prequel episodes, be it witty one-liners, great tension, epic storytelling or interesting characters.  That is why I do not care about Lucas and his failed venture in filmmaking: others took care of Star Wars and produced great stories."
"The fourth chapter in the &#x22;Star Wars&#x22; saga is not as bad as it&#x27;s reputation would suggest but&#x27;s it nothing to critically laud and rave about either.  Set 32 years before the first film, the story (if you want to call it that) tells us the origins of iconic characters Anakin Skywalker, Obi-Wan Kenboi and Yoda among others while introducing new faces such as Mace Windu and Padmae Amidala who all play important roles in shaping the events of the original trilogy.  The performers are pretty good. The all-star cast includes some of my favorite actors including the lovely Natalie Portman and the great pros Frank Oz and Samuel L. Jackson. Other performers like Liam Neeson are OK but not spectacular. And although underused, Ray Park makes a silently menacing villain in Darth Maul.  The cons are not too bad but are pretty big blunders nonetheless. The CGI is terrible, it looks too artificial and distracts from the actors and the &#x22;story&#x22; and speaking of which, how much more convoluted can this script get? The first three films were so crystal clear in their stories and the characters and here, your left out in the cold. Last but by no means least...the presence of Jar Jar Binks. Need I say more? All in all, while not a classic it stands as a piece of history (for the useless hype) but it&#x27;s not half bad. One last observation: what would the film have been like if Sam Jackson played Mace like Zeus from &#x22;Die Hard 3&#x22;?"
"I was raised watching Star Wars, and I loved all of them. Unfortunately, they haven&#x27;t held up too well.   The Phantom Menace has a much better plot than I remember, but some parts I felt were rushed over and could have been further developed, so I ended up confused several times. Also, I felt like the characters were never trying hard enough to actually resolve the conflicts peacefully over just waging war. Sure it&#x27;s more entertaining, but it wasn&#x27;t necessarily realistic.   The characters were just average. Nothing special really. The often bad actors made it difficult to really care about any of them because of how fake they felt.   The acting was what really brought this movie down, especially with Jake Lloyd&#x27;s performance. Now you may say &#x22;Well he&#x27;s a child actor so it can be excused&#x22; but I&#x27;ve seen a fair amount of good child actors in my day and this certainly isn&#x27;t one. I understand if the kids aren&#x27;t important to the movie then sure, get some actors who don&#x27;t know the first thing about it because they&#x27;re not important. But when they&#x27;re pretty much the main character then you have to try a little harder. Lloyd&#x27;s performance was quite bad, which made his character end up feeling more fake. He wasn&#x27;t the only bad actor though, a lot of other secondary characters weren&#x27;t so talented either.   The writing isn&#x27;t the best. Some of the lines the actors were given were pretty cheesy or stupid, and made the characters just appear goofy or unrealistic.   The special effects are pretty bad sometimes. At some points it looks fine because everything else is CGI too so it all just blends together, but when you put CGI Jar Jar Binks next to real Liam Neeson it really stands out as clearly fake, which would obviously take you out of the movie.   A lot of the time I found myself wondering &#x27;why?&#x27; throughout the movie. Why is that there? Why would you do that? Some things just didn&#x27;t make sense. I could think of absolutely no reason why it exists, so why does it? What purpose could a row of red laser doors that automatically open for two seconds before closing for thirty seconds possibly serve? I don&#x27;t know, but it really bothered me sometimes.   The continuity is somewhat lacking at times too. This is just a small thing, but I still noticed it and it still got on my nerves.   One thing that I did really like were the designs of the pods in the pod race. They actually made sense while still maintaining uniqueness. Unfortunately the rest of the movie doesn&#x27;t follow through with that level of originality.   Overall The Phantom Menace really is a below average movie. Despite enjoying parts of it, it really just isn&#x27;t a well-done movie. In the end I would only recommend it to people wanting to watch the next two movies, because it is somewhat important to the story. I just hope that the next two movies hold up better than this one did."
"I loved all things Star Wars as a kid, recently after a few years of ignoring them, I decided to rewatch them. The prequel trilogy has been me asking myself &#x22;why the hell did I like this crap?&#x22; with the only exception being Episode 3 which was watchable. The other two are complete crap.  Firstly the two redeeming features - Ewan McGregor and Liam Neeson. These two not only prove they can act (although what is there to prove) but they can carry an entire film on the weight of their shoulders. The only other redeeming feature that I can find is the fight between Darth Maul and the two Jedi. That is probably the one sequence or event that I actually enjoyed (besides Jar-Jar&#x27;s tongue going numb but that wasn&#x27;t for the same reasons - that thing shut his mouth!). Maul is something I can take lightly. Ray Park had huge shoes to fill when becoming a new Star Wars villain. Especially when the previous Star Wars villain has become the definitive movie villain (Darth Vader) so that I can let slide.  Now onto the bad parts. Thank you Mr. Lucas for creating the most annoying character in cinema history, Jar-Jar. I struggle to think of anyone else who was more annoying. This is coming from someone who has loved The Fifth Element since he was 7. The difference is that Chris Tucker managed to make the character of Rhuby Rhod REALLY ANNOYING and Bruce Willis, for most of the Tucker&#x27;s screen time, wanted to tear his head off and spit down his neck. Hence its funny to see them on screen together. Here Jar-Jar is as audible as a Lithuanian baby trying to speak Mongolian and everyone treats it as okay that a grown thing speaks like a retarded, incontinent goat with rabies.  Jake Lloyd is as miscast as the next Darth Vader, Hayden Christensen. Vader came off as really threatening. So Lucas says &#x22;Hey I want to make one of the most threatening movie villains of all time...why not let him say &#x27;yippe&#x27; a lot during this film. Most kids do that anyway.&#x22; This is like casting Michael Jackson as Dorothy in an adaptation of The Wizard Of Oz...nothing could possibly make it work.  With the new Computer Generated age Lucas has thrown in entire backgrounds and characters that were CGI. The only thing that is left unharmed is that Yoda in this one is still a puppet. Sam L. Jackson was laughable. I even yelled out as a riff &#x22;Enough is enough! I&#x27;ve had it with these mother f#cking Sith in this mother f#cking series!&#x22; but he was only in it because he especially requested it.  Overall, yes it is bad however it is not &#x22;so bad its unwatchable&#x22;. This film did have a few things going for it. All it needed was a few more things and we&#x27;d be left with a decent film...if only."
"First of all, watch this review:   https://www.youtube.com/watchv=FxKtZmQgxrI&#x26;list=PLF34EBB1D6806425 1 .   It&#x27;s one hour long, but if you have free time then I recommend you sit back and discover how insanely pathetic yet offensively horrendous Episode 1 is.  Now that&#x27;s out of the way, I am not exaggerating in the SLIGHTEST when I say that this is the worst film I have ever seen. The only reason critics don&#x27;t give this monstrosity a -4/10 on a regular basis is because it&#x27;s STAR WARS. Every awful line, shot and plot point is overlooked because they&#x27;re associated with a franchise that had some good films in it. If this came out into cinemas as a standalone film not connected to a franchise then we would all hate it like the jolly bowl of urine it is. But no.  The score isn&#x27;t bad. In fact, one or two pieces of music in this film can be considered good. They&#x27;re hummable, catchy and overall enjoyable. But OH MY GOD, what decency the soundtrack adds the rest of the film takes away.  Let&#x27;s start with the actors. More specifically, the characters. More specifically than that, a case of &#x22;You Will Learn To Love Him&#x22;. This is when a film, book or any other story-based medium tries desperately to force a character down your throat, whilst screaming &#x22;AREN&#x27;T THEY SO FUNNY AND SMART AND CLEVER AND AMAZING AND PERFECT?!?!&#x22;. This is Anakin Skywalker.  I have nothing against Jake Lloyd. Actually, I do. The little git can&#x27;t act for his life , bless him. His deadpan, emotionless voice makes Lucas&#x27; CRINGEWORTHILY CRINGEWORTHY dialogue even worse. &#x22;Are you an angel?&#x22; Anakin asks like the little bugger he is. I don&#x27;t know, Jake - are you a demon? OK, maybe I&#x27;m being mean. After all, he is a child actor. But it&#x27;s the way Lucas treats him like this super cool awesome funny amazeballs child that kills anything and everything. The best example of this is when Anakin climbs into a spaceship, finds a helmet (that perfectly fits his tiny child-sized head for some reason, despite this being a good opportunity for some slapstick OH NO WAIT THAT WOULD MEAN INSULTING THE SUPER AWESOME ANAKIN KID) and flies it. FLIES IT. When he screams &#x22;woohoo&#x22;, fairies die.  What&#x27;s worse - a stupid, annoying child actor or professionals with no emotion? I love Liam Neeson, but his performance adds NOTHING to this film. None of the actors have any expressions or interesting features, except..... *sigh* Jar Jar Binks. You know what? He isn&#x27;t the worst thing about this film. At least he has a character. At least he isn&#x27;t treated like the messiah. And he&#x27;s not as stupid as the plot.  Ahh, the PLOT. I don&#x27;t where to start - partly because it&#x27;s so ridiculous, but also due to it being to unnecessarily complicated and BORING. The original films where simple: evil bad guy empire is evil, so good guy is good and learns to fight them. There&#x27;s bits in between, and lore, but it&#x27;s a simple story of someone training and learning to fight evil. Simple. What happens in Phantom Menace? Evil people want nice person to sign a peace treaty, so evil person... no... good people escort good person... I think... to place... but... I know they get stranded on a sandy planet and enter a pod race to win a new engine... but... I&#x27;m stumped.  I&#x27;M NOT SAYING THE PLOT SHOULD BE SIMPLE. All I&#x27;m saying is: who cares? When was the last time you were watching a Star Wars film and thought, &#x22;Hmm, I wonder what trade difficulties would be produced if there was an evil empire with some aliens?&#x22; I can&#x27;t even make a proper joke there, because the plot is so ridiculous.  It&#x27;s stupid. It&#x27;s under-hated. It&#x27;s overrated. It&#x27;s the worst film I have seen with my eyeballs. And I&#x27;ve seen Jack &#x26; Jill."
"The best scene in this disaster is where Samuel L. Jackson is sitting with the other major actors having a discussion about how they are going to react to something. Although he doesn&#x27;t say it, YOU KNOW WHAT HE IS THINKING!  He is thinking &#x22;what the **** am I doing here?&#x22; He is thinking &#x22;this has got to be the most ****** up movie of all time!&#x22; He is thinking &#x22;I can&#x27;t believe these people are actually saying this ****!&#x22;  It is written all over his face, and it is hilarious. His character is the only one in the movie that &#x22;gets it.&#x22;  The rest of the movie is pure ****."
"The only reason I&#x27;m even sitting here and writing this is to vent my gross disappointment in this movie, so I will keep this as short as possible.. I recently watched the despecialized versions of &#x27;Empire Strikes Back&#x27; and &#x27;Return of the Jedi&#x27;. And it made me wonder if Phantom Menace was as bad as I remember it to be. Given that the last time I watched this movie I was still in high school, my expectations weren&#x27;t low. I just failed to take into account what a few hundred new stories that inhabit my memories. Here&#x27;s my take on it:   Lucas has gone off the deep end. His constant tweaking and the hostage situation he&#x27;s created with the original trilogy by not releasing a version without all his tampering aside. This is a mess. Bad use of characters; Next to no explanation for situations; Often times rather weak (and might I say, rather racist) villains; Bad Science; Too much emphasis on effects; Bad story: etc&#x85; But the most troubling thing for me is the logic in this movie.. We already know how it&#x27;s going to end up.. because we&#x27;ve seen the original trilogy. We know for instance that that little boy is going to grow up to be evil, and that Yoda tells us that he is full of hate. So make an aggressive little b**terd&#x85; Not this weird little quiet kid who has magic building powers.. You told us that Yoda trained Obi-Wan.. So make Yoda train Obi-Wan.. not some random Jedi (no matter how cool he might be). This is the story of how the Sith rise up and destroy the Jedi.. So make me feel with and for Darth Maul..  This movie is filed with little annoying plot holes like that, and it drove me bonkers. You can&#x27;t show me an intergalactic senate with thousands of different species and expect me to believe that they are OK with being policed by human Storm Troopers while their human/Sith emperor constructs a weapon to destroy planets..  Like I said.. Plot Holes.. And lots of them.. And on a personal note as a lover of sword-duels.. Just explain to me that the Force allows Jedi to see where their enemy is going to attack.. cause it&#x27;s easy to spot the difference between an actual fight where people react to each other and a choreographed swordfighting-dance where they know where they should place their sword next.  Plot holes&#x85;"
"This was one of the most disappointing films I&#x27;ve ever seen.  I love 5 out of the 7 films made(don&#x27;t forget about Episode VII),III,IV,V,VI and VII. I and II were boring and focused to much on special effects.   Episode I was especially boring, with only one fight scene. The fight scene is one of my favourite, but the rest of the film is boring, and if Liam Neeson had actually read the script before filming, he probably wouldn&#x27;t have been in it.  It completely ruined the Star wars trilogies. Could this film get any worse?"
"Without a doubt, the most hated in the Series. Fan were so excited to see this, but felt the Cinema feeling empty inside.  I have to be honest; this is what got me into Star Wars in the first place. I loved this movie a lot, I thought it was amazing, but then after watching the Original Trilogy, I realized how much this sucked and that is wasn&#x27;t the masterpiece I thought it was.  Crappy acting, bad special effects, Yoda looks more like a Muppet than ever before and also...Jar Jar Binks...the only redeeming factor of this film is the Duel of Fates, which is probably the best part in film, since all we get is fart jokes from a certain Gungan.  Darth Maul was so cool and looked so evil and intimidating, until he got killed off, but thank Lucas for &#x22;The Clone Wars&#x22;."
This movie was one of the most disappointing movies of all time and i regret even putting The Phantom Menace in my DVD Player when i first watched it. Here are somethings that make the movie bad.  1. Jar Jar Binks 2. Political Dialogue almost half of the movie 3. Alittle kid playing Anakin Skywalker 4. The most stupidest Dialogue i have ever heard 5. Not so emotional light saber fights that made The Originals great 6 Home to some of the most ugliest characters in movie history  These are the Top 6 reasons that make this movie one of the worst things to ever be made by a human being.
"Star Wars, the Phantom Menace had to be THE biggest let-down of the 1990&#x27;s, if not the whole decade. For years, many Star Wars fans, like myself, awaited with baited breath for the return of the Force so we could learn what led to the demise of Anakin Skywalker and how he became Darth Vader. It starts with the Trade Federation placing an embargo on the planet, Naboo. Sent to negotiate are two Jedi Knights, Qui Gon Jin (Liam Neeson), and and young Obi Wan Kenobi (Ewan MacGregor). The Trade Federation tries to kill them and they flee to the planet Naboo. There, they meet Jar Jar Binks who leads them to Princess Amidalla (Natalie Portman). They flee in her spaceship which is damaged and forced to land on a desert world, Tatooine. There, they meet a young Anakin Skywalker (Jake Lloyd) who is a slave and a great pod racer. After making a few bets, Qui Gon Jinn befriends the would- be Sith Lord and gets back to the capital world, Coruscant. He takes the boy because he has strong proclivities to the Force. There, the boys meets a CGI Yoda along with Mace Windu (Samuel L. Jackson), and a rising political figure, Senator Palpatine (Ian McDiarmind). He convinces Amidalla to propose a vote of no-confidence in the Chancellor so he can use political clout to help them. Once that is done, Amidalla, Qui Gon, Obi Wan, Anakin and an annoying Jar-Jar return to Naboo for a full conflict. This movie goes from bad to worse, to more worse, to even more worse, and even more worse. The movie suffers from poor characters, weak story, poor conflict, and uneven direction. First are the characters. There is no-one for movie audiences to identify with. The Jedi are larger than life and epic, having little to no faults. There is no doubt, no longing for adventure, no fear, and no personality. Jar Jar Binks is the only one with personality, but it is annoying, ripping off all the cheesy lines from Full House while sounding like Roger Rabbit. Jake Lloyd as a young Anakin has no doubt, no fear, and actually flies a fighter in a battle. The poor dialog adds to this malaise. The story, too, is weak. At age 10, I found it easy to track the story of A New Hope, but will kids track this one? I doubt it. A bigger drawback is that special effects take precedence over the story. Lucas, now with the help of computers, places so much into the scene it takes the focus off the characters and what they are doing (or talking). And within this story there is no conflict because not only can you not identify with any of the characters, but also you don&#x27;t find any hatred for the bad guys. In fact, the Battle Droids are just as cheesy and comical as Jar Jar. Finally, there is uneven direction. Lucas is not a master director. As a story board artists, and as executive producer, he shines through. This is prevalent at the climatic battle when three stories are going on and it is hard to follow. The only thing I liked was the Jedi battle with the Sith, Darth Maul, who wields a double-edged light saber. That was cool, and fun to watch. The only problems, it last about five minutes in a movie that is 130 minutes. I made a point to see the movie again, thinking I had become too cynical. No. After that, I was convinced this was the misfire of a man who used to be able to tell a simple story."
"Yep, even after seeing how bad The Force Awakens turned out to be. Two wrongs don&#x27;t make this movie right, folks.  In fact, I spent years analyzing exactly how much this movie sucked, beginning with standing in line 17 years ago, and very much continuing on through the subsequent excuses.  &#x22;Sure, it wasn&#x27;t a great movie, but it&#x27;s just a setup for the next one, and that one will be great.&#x22; Which is what they said about the next movie... and the next movie...  I&#x27;ve concluded that TPM was the 9/11 of American cinema: a monumental disaster that we all saw coming (Independence Day, Twister, etc setting the table for hollow CG &#x22;blockbusters&#x22;), and yet seemed powerless to prevent. Because 1999 turned out to be something of a watershed for the endless slough of BOOM BOOM crap ever since.  Transformers. Jupiter Ascending. The Hobbit (and LOTR itself, depending on who you ask). The Matrix sequels. Jurassic World. Avatar. You know what I mean.  The Floodgates of the Subpar had broken; Pandora&#x27;s Box of flashy kitsch could never be closed again. Jar Jar - frighteningly - became the new normal. What, you consider a franchise where a car urinates on a guy&#x27;s head to hold *any* artistic integrity? Maybe not, but you know you paid to see it.  Good job, George."
